--- PAGE 1 ---

Approved by: Executive Team July 2010 
 
University Policy on the Approval of 
Major Initiatives  
Ma

--- PAGE 2 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
University Policy on Approval of Major Initiatives 
Approved by Executive Team July 2010 
1 
 
 
Procedure for Dealing with Major Strategic Initiatives and Major Research Initiatives (including 
bids to the Scottish Funding Council, specifically the Horizon Fund) 
 
 
1. Background 
 
It is anticipated that there will be three main strands of this process: for initiatives that have a Research & 
Knowledge Exchange focus; Learning & Teaching focus an d those which are seeking Scottish Funding 
Council Horizon Fund support.  (N.B. it is recognized that there may well be overlap between this broad 
categorization, in such circumstances the lead member of staff for the initiative should contact the 
Director of Corporate Services for advice). 
 
2. Scope 
 
A Major Initiative shall be defined as any initiative  involving a proposed external funding partner who is 
not a research council, or major research charity and/ or an external delivery partner.  Initiatives seeking 
funding from the Scottish Funding Council (for research pooling, strategic development grants or the 
Horizon Fund) are covered by this procedure. 
 
Major Initiatives covered by this procedure typically have one or more of the following characteristics: 
1) a total resource requirement of greater than £1M based on full economic costing 
2) a total resource requirement of less than £1M but still a strategic implication for the University 
and/or Faculty/ies 
3) an expectation of match funding from the University 
4) a significant estates/refurbishment dimension 
5) a significant level of risk to the University and/or individual Faculty/ies. 
 
3.  Initiation Meeting 
 
Any member of University staff may request an initia tion meeting, typically this will be the project 
champion, or Head of Department/School, Dean, Professional Services Director or Deputy Principal. 
 
Initiation meetings will be chaired by a Deputy Prin cipal.  The type of project will dictate which Deputy 
Principal should chair the meeting.  It is expected that generally this will be either the Deputy Principal 
Research & Knowledge Exchange or Deputy Principal Learning & Teaching.  (For proposals seeking 
funding from SFC’s Horizon Fund it has been agreed that the Deputy Principal Research & Knowledge 
Exchange must chair the meeting.) 
 
For initiation meetings the following staff will be invited to attend by the Deputy Principal in the chair: 
 
 the proposition champion; 
 Head of Department/School/unit/Professional Service Director; 
 Dean(s) or Vice-Dean(s); 
 Director(s) of the appropriate Professional Services(s) (or nominees); 
 CFO and COO (or nominees). 
 
The ‘initiation meeting’ will be used to determine the future development of the Major Initiative and the 
main outcomes should be: 
 
 Recommendation to the Executive Team on whether to pursue the Major Initiative and the risks 
associated with the decision outcome; 
 In cases where the Major Initiative is to be developed, recommendation on the composition of the 
Project Team and the roles of the individuals within it;

--- PAGE 3 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
 
University Policy on Approval of Major Initiatives 
Approved by Executive Team July 2010 
2 
 
 Assessment of the likely frequency of meetings of the Project Team required to meet milestones 
and external deadlines; 
 Key details of reporting mechanisms, timings and information required of the Project Team. 
 
4.  Project Team 
 
The Project Team will be responsible for development and delivery of the proposal and business case 
and other pre-award preparation.  At this stage it is also important to agree how the project will be 
monitored, the future sustainability of the project and future exit strategies. 
 
Project Teams will vary according to the need of the Major Initiative, however, it is anticipated that 
Project Teams will typically involve: 
 
 The Proposition Champion; 
 Faculty(ies) representative(s); 
 Professional Services representatives as appropriate depending on the project. 
 
It is anticipated that Project Teams will report to the lead Dean(s) or Professional Service Director – 
copied to the Deputy Principal, COO and CFO. 
 
It is expected that at the point that all agreements are concluded and all funding and governance 
structure(s) are in place, the Project Team will be replaced by the appropriate governance and 
leadership structures for delivery of the Major Initiative. 
 
 
 
AIF/DG/RKES/CC 
 
 C Court, Corporate Services 
 29.06.10