--- PAGE 1 ---

ASSESSMENT AND 
FEEDBACK POLICY 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.2 Assessment and 
Feedback Policy – 
applicable to both 
undergraduate and 
postgraduate taught 
courses 
Assessment 
and 
Feedback 
Working 
Group 
Senate From academic 
year 2019-20 
 Version 1.2 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
   1 
 
1. RATIONALE 
In higher education, “assessment ” describes any process that involves the evaluation or 
appraisal of a student’s knowledge, understanding, skills, attitudes or abilities. In line with the 
QAA UK Quality Code for Higher Education , assessment is taken to be an integral component 
of teaching and  learning, and serves multiple purposes. In addition to enabling evaluation and 
measurement of students’ learning, effective assessment  shapes and enhanc es student 
learning. Assessments should therefore be designed to facilitate students’ attainment  of 
intended learning outcomes , and permit the measurement of such attainments  against explicit 
criteria. A holistic approach to assessment at course level can also support the development of 
distinctive Strathclyde graduate attributes: graduates that are engaged, enquiring, enterprising, 
and ethically and globally aware. Recent publications on assessment and feedback in higher 
education suggest a ‘transformation’ is required to ensure that assessment and feedback 
practices enable students to develop such attributes  and the skills needed to be lifelong 
learners in the 21st century.1  
This approach recognises that assessment is central to learning and teaching, and is not 
designed solely to measure student learning . Also essential  to enhancing learning, is the 
provision of continuous feedback to students on their learning; it is recognised that  feedback 
takes different forms (e.g. replies to posts on a discussion forum), but in relation to assessment, 
useful feedback is feedback that is specific in informing learners the extent to which they have 
met published assessment criteria, and explains to them what they need to do to improve. 
Ensuring feedback is clear, specific, and adopts a supportive tone is most likely to foster 
student engagement with feedback. The role of feedback in effectively supporting student 
learning should be recognised at the assessment design stage, where factors  such as t he 
timing of the release of feedback and the scheduling of subsequent assessments are 
considered (particularly where feedback can be used by students to improve the development 
of future work), as well as the provision of opportunities for students to clarify feedback.  
The University expects that feedback will normally be returned to students within 15 working 
days of assessment submission2. The University’s VLE, Myplace, provides a platform for the 
electronic return of grades and feedback, and where permitted by the nature of an assessment, 
staff are expected to implement the submission of assessments online through Myplace, in 
order to promote effectiveness and efficiency in each stage of the assessment and feedback 
process. In addition, Myplace should be used to manage assessments that are submitted offline 
in order to implement the Policy and Procedure on Extensions to Coursework Submission and 
Procedures for the Recording and Publication of Marks . Staff should also be cognisant of 
specific is sues relevant to equality, diversity and inclusion in designing assessments and 
providing feedback, which may affect particular groups of students.3  
                                              
1 For example: Boud, D. & Falachikov, N. (Eds.). (2007). Rethinking Assessment in Higher Education. Oxon: 
Routledge; Higher Education Academy. (2012). A Marked Improvement. Transforming assessment in higher 
education. York: The Higher Education Academy; Merry, S., Price, M., Carless, D. & Taras, M. (Eds.). (2013). 
Reconceptualising Feedback in Higher Education. Developing Dialogue with Students . Oxon: Routledge; 
Carless, D. (2015). Excellence in university assessment: learning from award- winning practice. London: 
Routledge. 
2 Exceptions to this are dissertations or assessments with credit weightings of 40 credits or higher, and where 
double marking is required. (See the Policy on Moderation and Double Marking).  
3 Staff are advised to consult the University’s equality impact assessment information where relevant.

--- PAGE 3 ---

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
   2 
 
Previous work on assessment at Strathclyde (through the Re -Engineering Assessment 
Practices4 and Peer Evaluation in Education Review 5  projects, together with the work on Peer 
and Community Personal Development Planning),  have emphasised the importance of 
providing students with opportunities to self - and peer-assess, and for students to develop the 
capacity to evaluate, reflect on 6 and manage their own learning  through the effective use of 
feedback. Published research also highlights  the importance of developing students’  
understanding of the criteria and standards by which their work is assessed,  and suggests that 
providing students with the opportunity to analyse and discuss the qualities of carefully selected 
exemplars is an effective learning activity to achieve this7. It is widely recognised that these will, 
in the long-term, help develop attitudes and skills that foster engagement and independence in 
learning.  
 
The aim of the current policy is to develop an institution- wide approach to assessment and 
feedback that enhances  the effectiveness of assessment in aiding students to achieve the 
necessary knowledge and skills described in a class or programme’s  intended learning 
outcomes. The policy is  underpinned by principles of assessment and feedback  (outlined in 
section 3) that reflect this aim and a commitment to ensuring our assessment and feedback 
practices are fair,  transparent, and continuously reviewed. In short,  to ensure they continue to 
be fit for purpose. This policy should be adhered to across the University. The implementation 
of the policy will be monitored by the Quality Assurance Committee. 
 
2. SCOPE  
This policy applies to all undergraduate and postgraduate taught  programmes offered by the 
University. This policy should be read in conjunction with other relevant University policies and 
procedures. The University website  contains policies and procedures on a range of 
assessment-related matters, including:  ensuring equality , guidance for staff on supporting 
students with a disability , guides for staff marking assessments in undergraduate and 
postgraduate taught courses, guidance for students and staff on avoiding plagiarism, guidance 
for staff in dealing with possible cases of plagiarism, policies on classifying honours degrees 
and other degree awards, and on awarding motiv ational merit and distinction, guidance on the 
compensation scheme,  the role of external examiners in taught courses , the procedure for 
dealing with student discipline cases,  guidance for staff on the appeals procedure and 
accounting for students’ personal circumstances. 
 
 
 
                                              
4 REAP Project, accessed at http://www.reap.ac.uk/ 
5 PEER Project, accessed from: http://www.reap.ac.uk/PEER.aspx. The site contains a PEER toolkit 
containing guidance for staff on using peer review. 
6 Winstone, N. & Nash. R. (2016). The Developing Engagement with Feedback Toolkit (DEFT). The Higher 
Education Academy. https://www.heacademy.ac.uk/knowledge-hub/developing-engagement-feedback-toolkit-
deft 
7 Carless, D. & Boud, D. (2018): The development of student feedback literacy: enabling uptake of feedback, 
Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, DOI: 10.1080/02602938.2018.1463354

--- PAGE 4 ---

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
   3 
 
3. ASSESSMENT AND FEEDBACK PRINCIPLES 
 
These principles have been widely consulted on across the University , and must be adhered to 
throughout the institution.  
PRINCIPLE 1 . ASSESSMENT AND FEEDB ACK PRACTICES PROMOTE EFFECTIVE 
STUDENT LEARNING 
1.1 Assessment and feedback  activities are designed to foster student engagement, to 
support and measure students’ attainment of knowledge, understanding, and 
transferable skills.  
1.2 A range of assessment methods are used, increasing in complexity across a 
programme, and taking into consideration student and staff workloads. 
1.3 Assessment and feedback practices align with intended learni ng outcomes and 
assessment criteria, and provide opportunities for students to be active participants in 
the process, including opportunities for students to discuss feedback. 
1.4 Timely, constructive, and supportive feedback helps students understand the extent to 
which they have fulfilled the assessment criteria, and supports students to use their 
feedback in the development of subsequent work.  
1.5 The timing of assessments and return of feedback should be scheduled to enable 
students to use feedback to inform t heir approach to subsequent assessments.  The 
release of feedback should consider the ability of students to gain further feedback and 
support, and avoid release in close proximity to periods where the university is closed 
1.6 Where examinations are used, students should receive at least general feedback soon 
after the examination.  Students who wish to view their exam scripts following the 
provision of general feedback should be facilitated to do so under supervision of staff. 
PRINCIPLE 2 . ASSESSMENT AND FEEDBACK PRACTICES ARE APPROPRIATE, FAIR, 
AND TRANSPARENT 
2.1 Assessment tasks are appropriate to disciplinary and/or professional contexts. 
2.2 Assessment applies rigorous academic standards related to and across, the discipline(s) 
or professional context and is based on clearly defined assessment criteria. 
2.3 Assessment grading and feedback is based solely on students’ achievement against 
criteria and standards. 
2.4 Assessment and feedback practices are fair, inclusive and accessible to all students. 
PRINCIPLE 3 . ASSESSMENT AND FEEDBACK PRACTICES ARE CLEARLY 
COMMUNICATED TO STUDENTS AND STAFF 
3.1 Students must be made aware at the beginning of a class of the details of assessments, 
including the purpose, weighting, and timing of assessment. 
3.2 Students must be made aware at the beginning of a class of the nature and timing of 
feedback. Where unexpected problems cause a delay in the return of feedback within 15 
working days, an explanation will be provided to students, along with a new date for the 
return of feedback. 
3.3 All students and staff are made aware at the start of a class of the criteria and standards 
used to assess and provide feedback on students’ work.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
   4 
 
3.4 Students must be made aware of relevant policies and procedures around academic 
honesty in assessment, and of  procedures associated with personal circumstances , 
extensions to the deadlines of coursework, and late submission of coursework. 
3.5 There are opportunities for students and staff to engage in a dialogue around 
assessment and feedback, including opportunities for students to clarify feedback. 
3.6 In each programme the processes for marking, moderation, and feedback are 
appropriate and fair and are explained to students and staff. 
PRINCIPLE 4. ASSESSM ENT AND FEEDBACK PRA CTICES ARE CONTINUOUSLY 
REVIEWED  
4.1 The timing of assessment activities at cohort level, including the timing of examinations,  
are monitored and reviewed, in order to minimise bunching.  
4.2 Assessment and feedback activities, and the outcomes of assessment, are reviewed via 
the c lass and course approval a nd/or review processes, and external examining  
processes. 
4.3 Assessment and feedback activities are continuously reviewed to ensure effective  
alignment with a programme’s intended learning outcomes and graduate attributes. 
4.4 Opportunities to develop effective  practice and innovation in assessment and feedback 
are available to all staff involved in assessment. 
 
4. ANONYMOUS MARKING 
4.1 Anonymous marking (when the identity of a student is not known to a marker and/or exam 
board) will be used for all assessments wherever possible and appropriate, including formal 
written examinations at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. 
4.2 Where anonymous marking is not possible, for example where an alternative method of 
assessment has been used for a student with a disability, additional scrutiny by a second 
marker may be appropriate.  
4.3 Other exceptions will be where the mode of assessment (e.g. , presentations or oral 
examinations) prevents anonymity, or where there is pedagogical justification (e.g. , the use 
of ipsative feedback).  
4.4 Double marking is effective practice for assessments that are not marked anonymously and 
for dissertations, or comparable assessments. 
 
5. RESPONSIBILITIES FOR IMPLEMENTATION 
5.1 The University assumes responsibility for:  
- Providing staff with opportunities to develop effective practice in assessment and 
feedback through the Organisational Staff and Development Unit  (Strathclyde Teaching 
Excellence Programme) Education Enhancement (the University’s VLE, Myplace offers 
various tools to support effective practice in assessment and feedback, including 
handling peer review/assessment activities, online assessment submission and return of 
feedback, and enabling efficient comm unication with different student and staff groups ; 
the Sharing Practice in Enhancing Learning and Teaching (SPELT)  platform, and

--- PAGE 6 ---

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
   5 
 
TESTA), the Disability and Wellbeing Service (for ensuring assessments are accessible 
to all students), and the Equality and Diversity Office;  
- Providing adequate resources , including information technology systems, to support 
effective practice (Information S ervices Directorate, Student Business , Education 
Enhancement); and 
- Monitoring implementation of this policy through the Quality Assurance Committee 
(Education Enhancement). 
5.2 Faculties are responsible for:  overseeing and receiving reports from programme exam 
boards; scrutinising external examiners’ reports and responding to them ; ensuring 
consistency in the implementation of this and other related policies across programmes, 
and sharing effective practice within and between faculties. 
5.3 Heads of Department /School are responsible for:  instructing colleagues within their 
Department/School to note and adhere to the Assessment and Feedback Policy and 
Procedures for Recording and Publication of Marks,  Procedures on Preparing and 
Conducting Exams, and other related policies such as the Policy on the Late Submission of 
Coursework, Policy on Extensions to Coursework Submission, the Policy on Moderation 
and Double Marking, and Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and 
Postgraduate Taught courses; and for ensuring that marking of assessments is sufficiently 
resourced to enable feedback to be returned within 15 working days of assessment 
submission. 
5.4 Programme Exam Boards are responsible for: making sure assessments  across a 
programme are marked fairly; ensuring university and faculty regulations are adhered to; 
and responding to points made by External Examiners. 
5.5 Programme Leaders/Directors are responsible for  ensuring a coherent and effective 
approach to assessment and feedback is taken across a programme of study. This 
approach will involve:  
- Ensuring a range of assessment methods are used throughout a pro gramme of study, 
as appropriate to the discipline; 
- Monitoring the intensity  and equity of assessments across and between programmes, 
with due consideration to joint honours degrees; 
- Designing and reviewing the Assessment Schedule and Exam Timetable within a 
programme and requesting amendments where there is assessment/exam bunching;  
- Developing effective moderation and/or double marking procedures, in line with the 
Policy on Moderation and Double Marking;  
- Ensuring procedures are in place for monitoring students’ use of the Policies and 
Procedures on Extensions to Coursework Submission  and Late Submission of 
Coursework, as a mechanism for identifying students who may require support; and  
- Ensuring procedures related to assuring fairness in assessment, such as moderation 
and the role of External Examiners, are communicated to students. 
5.6 Year Coordinators and/or Module Coordinators are responsible for:  
- Having an overview of summative assessment activities within a programme of study to 
avoid, where possible, a concentration of assessment deadlines, including examinations;

--- PAGE 7 ---

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
   6 
 
- Making sure the details of all assessments are provided at the start of a class; 
- Ensuring assessment criteria that is aligned to intended learning outcomes and the 
University’s Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and Postgraduate 
Taught programmes , is tr ansparent and made available to students at the start of a 
class; 
- Providing opportunities for students to use feedback prior to the submission of any 
subsequent related assessments;  
- Working with students to develop effective practice in assessment and feedback , 
including: providing students with opportunities to develop their understanding of the 
criteria and standards used to assess their work and supporting students to engage with 
and use feedback;  
- Obtaining feedback from students in relation to assessment and feedback for module(s) 
for which they are responsible, and for  communicating any actions on this feedback to 
students; and 
- For undertaking effective moderation and/or double marking procedures.  
5.7 Staff involved in assessing students’ work are responsible for: 
- Designing assessments that ef fectively facilitate and measure students’ achievement of 
intended learning outcomes; 
- Assessing students’ work according to published assessment criteria which are aligned 
to intended learning outcomes  and the University’s Guidance on Marking Assessments 
in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught programmes;  
- Providing timely, informative and helpful feedback which enables students to further 
improve their learning and performance wherever possible;  
- Informing students when, where and how feedback will be provided; 
- Engaging in dialogue with students about assessment and feedback; and 
- Continuously reviewing their approaches to assessment and feedback to reflect effective 
practice. 
5.8 Students are expected to be responsible for their own learning through:  
- Understanding the requirements of individual  assessments, and actively engaging with 
assessment tasks by devoting appropriate time and effort; 
- Developing an understanding of the relationship between intended learning outcomes  
and assessment criteria, and standards in their programme of study; 
- Ensuring their academic work is authentic and honestly produced; 
- Finding out where, how and when work is submitted and how and when feedback is 
provided; 
- Actively engaging, reflecting, and using provided feedback;  
- Understanding the academic policies and procedures related to assessment and 
feedback, including Personal Circumstances Procedure, Policy  and Procedures for the 
Late Submission of Coursework , Policy on M oderation and Double Marking, Policy on 
Extensions to the Submission of Coursework, and Compensation and Motivational Merit; 
- Seeking academic support when needed, for example, if feedback needs to be clarified; 
and 
- Participating in the development o f asses sment and feedback practices at class and 
programme levels.

--- PAGE 8 ---

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
   7 
 
6. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS 
 
Assessment The process of measuring the performance of students 
(as in examinations, assignments and other assessable 
work) that enables students to monitor their progress 
and contributes to their academic results. 
 
Assessment criteria 
 
 
Specific criteria against which pieces of work are 
assessed. An understanding of the criteria must be 
shared by markers and students. Feedback should 
relate to these criteria.  
Assessment bunching The perception of assessments within a programme of 
study being scheduled too closely together. 
 
Assessment schedule  
 
A timeline of all cohort level assessment. 
Exam bunching Where the scheduling of two exams falls within a 23 
hour period.  
 
Feedback Information provided to students on the quality of their 
performance in relation to assessment criteria, which 
forms the basis of improved student learning.  
 
Formative assessment   
 
This type of assessment normally has no or low 
weighting in the final mark for a module or programme. 
The goal of formative assessment is to provide an 
opportunity for students to monitor their learning and 
provide feedback to teachers that can be used to 
review their teaching. 
 
Graduate attributes Qualities, skills, dispositions, and understanding that 
students are expected to develop. At Strathclyde these 
are referred to as the 4 E’s –  engaged, enquiring, 
enterprising and ethically and globally aware. 
 
Intended learning outcomes What the student is expected to be able to do or 
demonstrate, in terms of particular knowledge, skills 
and understanding, by the end of a module or 
programme.  
 
Ipsative feedback 
 
This type of feedback compares a student’s 
performance on a current assessm ent with 
performance on a previous assessment. 
 
Moderation The process of checking that assessment criteria are 
consistently applied across markers in marking 
students’ work. 
 
Module The individual components of a programme, normally 
worth 20 or 10 credits. 
 
Module evaluation The process of obtaining feedback from students on all 
aspects of teaching, learning, and assessment within a

--- PAGE 9 ---

Assessment and Feedback Policy 
   8 
 
module. 
 
Programme The full degree programme leading to an award. 
 
Seen double marking Where an assessment is independently marked by two 
markers, but where the second marker has access to 
the marks or comments of the first marker. 
 
Summative assessment Assessment is summative when the grading of an 
assessment contributes to the final grade for a class or 
course. The aim of summative assessment is to 
evaluate students’ attainment of the intended learning 
outcomes within a unit of study. 
 
  
Unseen double marking 
 
Where an assessment is independently marked by two 
markers who do not have access to the grades or 
comments of the other marker. 
 
Working days The University’s standard working week is normally 
Monday to Friday, covering five working days. Fifteen 
working days would normally equate to 21 calendar 
days, but may be longer where the period includes 
University closure days.