--- PAGE 1 ---

CODE OF PRACTICE ON 
 
INVESTIGATIONS INVOLVING 
HUMAN BEINGS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eighth Edition

--- PAGE 2 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Contents   
 
 
INTRODUCTION 4 
 
1. General Scope 
 
4 
2. Exclusions from the Code 5 
3. Ethical and legal principles 5 
3.1 Compliance with ethical principles, Code and Law 5 
3.2 General ethical principles 5 
3.3 Ethics and Law 6 
 
SECTION A: ETHICS COMMITTEES AT THE UNIVERSITY 
 
7 
1. University Ethics Committee 7 
1.1 Purpose of the University Ethics Committee 7 
1.2 Composition of the University Ethics Committee 7 
1.3 Declaration of interests 8 
             1.4 Confidentiality                                                                                                                     8 
2. Departmental/School Ethics Committees 8 
2.1 Purpose of Departmental/School Ethics Committees 8 
2.2 Composition of Departmental/School Ethics Committees 8 
 
SECTION B: PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURES FOR OBTAINING ETHICAL APPROVAL 
 
9 
 
1. Projects which require consideration by the University Ethics Committee 
 
12 
1.1 Project considerations 12 
1.2 Participant considerations 12 
2. Projects which may be considered by a Departmental/School Ethics Committee 13 
3. Generic framework approvals and procedures 13 
3.1 Multistudy approval 13 
3.2 Devolvement 14 
             3.3 Simplified approval procedures                                                                                            14 
3.4 Risk management 14 
4. Specific ethical principles                                                                                                                 15 
4.1 Suitability of investigators 15 
4.2  Recruitment of participants 15 
4.3  Informed consent 16 
4.4. Anonymity 20 
4.5  Information of criminal or other wrongful conduct 20 
4.6  Biological and medical investigations and previous medical history 21 
4.7. Medical records and other records relating to care, education etc 22 
4.8  Research in relation to deceased persons 22 
4.9  Cadaveric tissue 22 
4.10 Exposure to risk, including location of investigations 23 
5. Approval procedures: University Ethics Committee 23 
5.1 Powers of the Committee in considering applications 23 
5.2 Applications not approved 23 
             5.3 Applications deferred or approved subject to conditions being satisfied                          23 
6. Amendments to investigations following ethical approval 24 
7. Student investigations and members of staff undertaking degrees 24 
8. Collaborative Investigations with other universities, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) 25 
and other organisations

--- PAGE 3 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
        Contents   
 
 
9. Investigations involving the NHS, including clinical trials 25 
9.1 Process 26 
9.2 Honorary contracts 26 
9.3 Model agreement for non-commercial research with the NHS 26 
9.5 Student investigations 27 
10. Investigations conducted on other premises 27 
11. Any investigations conducted outside the UK and Europe, including clinical trials 27 
12. Adverse events 27 
12.1 Adverse events in any type of situation 27 
12.2. Adverse events in clinical and other medical/biological trials 28 
13. Related approval procedures 28 
 
SECTION C: MANAGEMENT APPROVAL/SPONSORSHIP PROCEDURES 
 
29 
 
1. Introduction 
 
29 
2. Procedures for University sponsorship 29 
2.1 The RKES procedure 29 
2.2 The Head of Department procedure 29 
3. Investigations where the university is not being asked to be the sponsor 30 
4. Insurance 30 
 
SECTION D: RECORD KEEPING, MONITORING AND REPORTING 
 
31 
 
1. Data protection 
 
31 
1.1 Use of personal data in research 31 
1.2 Data protection principles 31 
1.3 Research data exemption 32 
2. Data management and record keeping 33 
2.1 Data planning 33 
2.2 Data management responsibilities 33 
2.3 Data security 33 
2.4 Sharing data 34 
2.5 Retention of data 34 
2.6 Disposal of data 35 
2.7 University Ethics Committee records 35 
2.8 Department Ethics Committee records and monitoring 35 
3. Monitoring of investigations approved by the University Ethics Committee 35 
3.1 Monitoring of investigations approved by the University Ethics Committee  35 
3.2 Monitoring of generic framework Investigations 36 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
37 
 
ANNEX 1 GLOSSARY 
 
38 
ANNEX 2 KEY RESPONSIBILITES OF SPONSOR 40 
ANNEX 3 KEY RESPONSIBILTIES OF CHIEF INVESTIGATOR 41 
ANNEX 4 INSURANCE 42 
ANNEX 5 NOTE ON THE LAW GOVERNING RESEARCH INVOLVING HUMAN TISSUE 45 
ANNEX 6 RESEARCH IN RELATION TO DECEASED PERSONS 47 
ANNEX 7 DEFINITION OF MEDICAL DEVICES 48

--- PAGE 4 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
 
Investigations involving human beings as participants are undertaken in this University in the course of teaching 
and research. The University seeks to ensure that the conduct of all its staff and students carrying out such 
work, whether biological, psychological or sociological, conforms to standards set by professional bodies, and is 
known to do so. The University Ethics Committee, with its associated Departmental/School Ethics Committees, 
has been established to consider general ethical issues relating to the teaching and research of the University 
which involve investigations on human beings. It aims to provide impartial advice to participants and investigators 
and to protect the dignity, rights, safety and well-being of all actual and potential participants. In carrying out this 
role it is the body responsible for giving ethical approval for investigations involving human participants. Ethical 
approval is required before any such investigation can start. 
 
The guidelines given in this document describe the overall principles and procedures by which the University 
makes ethical judgements on teaching and research investigations that involve human beings as participants. 
In applying these principles a balance has to be found. On the one hand the University requires that 
appropriate safeguards are in place, but on the other hand it does not want to impose unnecessary regulatory 
barriers that would prevent good teaching and research from taking place. The two major factors influencing 
this balance are risk and complexity: when the investigation involves a higher level of risk for a participant, 
or requires that the participant understand complex issues before giving informed consent (judged in both 
cases from the point of view of the participant), then there is a greater procedural burden on the investigator. 
The investigator has to establish that reasonable steps have been taken to mitigate risks, and that the residual 
risks are justified in terms of advances to human knowledge that the project will bring. Where participants 
have to consider complex issues in giving consent then the investigator has to ensure that information and 
time is given so that participants can properly reflect before giving their consent. In less complex cases 
verbal information and implied consent may be appropriate. It is the role of the University ethics committees 
to make such judgements. 
 
In parallel with ethical approval, management risk and sponsorship are assessed. The sponsor of an 
investigation is the organisation that takes ultimate responsibility for that investigation – this is normally the 
University of Strathclyde, the lead University in a multi-institution project, the NHS, or the financial sponsor. 
All investigations requiring ethical approval must have an identified Sponsor. You must not start work on an 
investigation until you have a formal statement from the designated Sponsor confirming that sponsorship is 
in place. If your research requires a Sponsor you must not start work on the project until you have a formal 
letter/statement from the designated Sponsor. Management risk assessment is one of the requirements of 
the University’s insurance cover in order to be able to demonstrate proper management of that investigation. 
 
This Code of Practice was developed by the University Ethics Committee and Research & Knowledge 
Exchange Services (RKES). It was first published in March 2008. 
 
 
 
1.      General Scope 
 
 
The Code covers: 
 
• all investigations conducted by University staff and students involving human beings, whether for research, 
teaching, student projects, or other educational purposes, and using any type of research methodology; 
• all investigations  conducted on University property, through the University, or under the auspices of the 
University (including on sites external to the University and involving investigators from outside the 
University), that involve human beings as participants, including investigations which have been transferred 
from other organisations; 
•     collaborative investigations involving human participants carried out by University staff and students 
working with investigators who are not staff or students of the University, including data analysis where the 
data has been obtained by a collaborating body. 
 
All University staff, associated staff, registered students and other investigators involved in University-related 
investigations are obliged to follow this Code of Practice.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
 
2.      Exclusions from the Code 
 
 
The Code does not apply to: 
 
•     procedures undertaken as part of routine patient-care: advice should be sought from the relevant 
NHS body 
•     research which involves only working from historical and literary databases and documents 
•     consultation with colleagues, experts or other stakeholders about the preparation or progress of an 
investigation, where those people do not contribute to the actual findings 
• work which is part of routine practices in professional contexts or service evaluation (unless otherwise 
provided). 
 
A service evaluation is: 
 
•     designed and conducted solely to define or judge a service 
•     designed to answer the question - ‘What standard does this service achieve?’ 
•     usually involves analysis of existing data but may include administration of a simple interview or 
questionnaire. 
 
If you are in doubt as to whether your investigation is a service evaluation, please seek advice from your 
Departmental/School Ethics Committee in the first instance or from the Secretariat for the University Ethics 
Committee (ethics@strath.ac.uk). 
 
 
 
3.      Ethical and legal principles 
 
 
3.1.   Compliance with ethical principles, codes and Law 
 
 
All investigations on or involving human participants must comply with: 
 
•     rules in this Code of Practice; 
•     all ethical principles and relevant codes and guidance developed by professional and international 
bodies and research councils; 
•     legislation and legal rules. The applicable law is that of the place or places where any aspect of 
the project is carried out, including of any place where the data are analysed. Where particular rules of 
law relate to the provisions in this Code of Practice, they are the rules of the Law of Scotland. These, 
therefore, are not necessarily applicable to other jurisdictions.

--- PAGE 6 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
6  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
 
3.2.   General ethical principles 
 
 
For all investigations covered by this Code, approval must be given by the relevant Ethics Committee (i.e. 
either the University Ethics Committee, the Departmental/School Ethics Committee or other ethics 
committee as appropriate) before the work may commence. For investigations involving the NHS, ethical 
approval must be sought from the relevant NHS Research Ethics Committee. Please note: 
 
•     there is an obligation on all investigators to protect participants, and potential participants, from possible 
harm and to preserve their dignity and rights. 
•     investigations should not involve any significant risk to the physical or mental well-being of the  
participants. 
•     confidentiality and privacy of participants must be maintained. 
•     an appropriate person (the Chief Investigator, who must be a Grade 7 or above member of staff, 
or equivalent) must take responsibility for the investigation; in particular, in the case of student 
investigations, the student’s supervisor is responsible for the investigation and must act as Chief 
Investigator. 
•     transparency and openness including accurate reporting of data. 
•     investigations which duplicate other work unnecessarily or which are not of sufficient quality to make a  
useful contribution to existing knowledge are in themselves unethical. 
•     investigators should justify the number of participants chosen for each study. 
•     insurance cover may be invalidated if an investigation commences before ethical approval (as required 
by this Code of Practice or by other legislation/guidelines) has been obtained. 
 
 
3.3.   Ethics and Law 
 
 
Legal rules affect the following aspects of an investigation, in particular: 
 
•     consent by or on behalf of participants in an investigation 
•     protecting a person’s right to autonomy and dignity, including, but not confined to, bodily integrity,  
privacy and confidentiality 
•     protecting a person’s property or his/her right to control property, including but not confined to rights of  
people who are not participants, e.g. to determine who comes onto their property 
•     a person’s rights arising from adverse events such as personal injury or illness caused 
•     particular contexts, where legislation provides a special additional set of rules, including but not 
confined to the legislation relating to children and young persons, and legislation relating to adults with 
cognitive impairment 
•     the processing and storing of personal data, in particular provisions of the Data Protection Act 1998 and 
associated regulations 
•     a person’s rights to access information under the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 
•     use of human tissue obtained from deceased persons [Human Tissue (Scotland ) Act 2006 and the 
Anatomy Act (1984)].

--- PAGE 7 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
7  
 
 
 
 
SECTION A: 
Ethics Committees at the University 
 
 
1.      University Ethics Committee 
 
 
1.1    Purpose of the University Ethics Committee 
 
The University Ethics Committee (U E C ) is a sub-committee of the Research & Knowledge Exchange 
Committee (RKEC). Its remit is: 
 
•     to devise and submit for approval by RKEC a University Code of Practice on investigations on human 
beings, to keep the Code under review and to recommend such modifications as from time to time are 
deemed necessary 
•     to implement the current edition of the Code and to amend and update the Annexes as appropriate 
•     to consider whether ethical approval should be granted for applications submitted to it for ethical review, 
applying appropriate skill and care in doing so 
•     to continue to monitor investigations for which approval has been given, and receive reports on their 
outcomes 
•     to  consider  and  promote  the  understanding  of  general  ethical  issues  relating  to  the teaching and 
research of the University which involve investigations on human participants and to provide impartial 
advice to staff and students of the University who undertake or who participate in such investigations 
on the ethical considerations involved 
•     to protect the dignity, rights, safety and well-being of all actual and potential participants involved in such 
investigations 
•     to be available to give advice and to liaise with external bodies, such as relevant NHS Research Ethics 
Committees and national university research ethics committee organisations, on ethical matters as 
appropriate 
•     to monitor the work of Departmental/School Ethics Committees 
•     to report annually to RKEC. 
 
1.2    Composition of the University Ethics Committee 
 
 
The composition of the UEC is such that it comprises a pool of up to 18 members representing a broad range 
of experience and expertise and normally including a member with academic training or expertise in ethics, 
a lawyer and a medically qualified person. There is a quorum of seven members for each meeting. The UEC 
comprises: 
 
•     up to 12 internal members from members of staff within the University, one of whom shall be the Convener 
•     up to three external members who are not employees of the University 
•     up to three lay members who are independent of the University and have no previous experience in 
carrying out investigations involving human participants. 
 
Members of the UEC will normally be appointed for three years at a time, and may be reappointed for 
subsequent years. 
 
The Convener of the UEC is appointed by the Senior Officer with responsibility for the UEC and the Director of 
Research & Knowledge Exchange Services (RKES). Up to four Vice Conveners may also be appointed. The 
Convener and Vice Conveners are appointed from amongst the members of the UEC, for a maximum period 
of six years, and normally for three years in the first instance. The Convener and Vice Conveners may act on 
behalf of the UEC and may approve investigations between meetings, subject to agreement of the UEC and 
report back on any action taken. A Vice Convener may act in the absence of the Convener and as 
otherwise delegated by the UEC. There is no automatic progression from Vice Convener to Convener. 
 
Additionally, at the Convener’s discretion, the UEC may seek expert advice and guidance from named 
members of staff or other independent experts on a range of matters as and when required.

--- PAGE 8 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
8  
 
 
 
 
SECTION A: 
Ethics Committees at the University 
 
 
1.3    Declaration of interests 
 
All members of the UEC, and anyone asked to provide expert advice to the UEC, who have an interest 
which may affect their consideration of a particular application or matter are required to declare that 
interest and, if necessary, should temporarily withdraw from the meeting for consideration of that proposal. 
The University’s Code of Practice on Conflicts of Interest 
(www.strath.ac.uk/media/ps/cs/gmap/academica ffairs/publications/Code_of_Practice_ -_Conflicts_  
of_Interest.pdf) must also be adhered to. 
 
1.4    Confidentiality 
 
All members of the UEC are expected to respect the confidentiality of the UEC’s business. Lay and external 
members are required to sign a confidentiality statement on their appointment to the UEC. This statement 
confirms that they will respect the confidentiality of the UEC’s business in relation to information of a 
commercially sensitive nature or relating to intellectual property rights. 
 
 
 
2.      Departmental/School Ethics Committees 
 
 
2.1.   Purpose of Departmental/School Ethics Committees 
 
Every department which undertakes projects which fall within the remit of this Code of Practice should establish 
a Departmental Ethics Committee (DEC) or a School Ethics Committee (SEC). The DEC/SEC should consider 
all applications for ethical approval within the department that do not fall within the criteria for consideration by 
the UEC, and any matter referred to it by the UEC, applying appropriate care and skill in doing so.  
 
•     DEC/SECs shall meet as often as required to consider applications made to them. Investigators who have 
submitted proposals for consideration shall be informed of the DEC/SEC’s decision by the secretary to the 
DEC/SEC. 
•     DEC/SECs shall report annually to the UEC on their work. 
•     DEC/SECs should consider preparing guidance and procedures relevant to research and related activities 
in their domain drawing on this Code of Practice and relevant professional standards.  
 
There may be instances when it would be appropriate to establish joint Departmental/School Ethics Committees, 
for example, smaller departments might find it advantageous to work within a larger grouping where expertise 
and responsibilities can be shared. 
 
2.2    Composition of Departmental/School Ethics Committees 
 
 
The composition of the DEC/SECs is such that they shall comprise a minimum of two members of staff from 
the Department(s)/School concerned and may also include either a member of staff from another department 
or an external member. The quorum for DEC/SECs is two, and it is essential that no member of staff acts as 
a member of the committee when it is considering an application that he or she has submitted to it. One 
of the members of the DEC/SEC must act as Convener of the DEC/SEC and may also act as Secretary to 
the DEC/SEC, or another person may act as secretary. The secretary has the obligation to provide further 
information to investigators as necessary in formulating applications, and will be responsible for informing 
them of the decision of the DEC/SEC, and where the application is rejected, or the DEC/SEC requires it to 
be amended, the reasons for that decision. The Convener and/or Secretary of the DEC/SEC are responsible 
for maintaining a record of all submissions made to it and the decisions reached.

--- PAGE 9 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
9  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
The following section contains a step-by-step guide to the procedures to be followed - see also the flow charts 
overleaf. 
 
Chief Investigators should ascertain whether the application falls within the remit of the UEC or the DEC/ 
SEC – see Section B1 and B2 (refer to pages 10-12). 
 
Investigators must have all relevant ethical approval, insurance cover, and sponsorship approval in place 
before the study can begin. 
 
University Ethics Committee 
 
 
•   The Chief Investigator (CI) should complete the University application form (available online at 
www.strath.ac.uk/ethics) and obtain the signature of the Head of Department. If the CI or co-
investigator is the Head of Department then the application must be signed by the Dean. or if the study 
involves the NHS then an IRAS application form has to be completed – this can be downloaded from 
the IRAS website – www.myresearchproject.org.uk/. 
•     The completed application form should be sent to ethics@strath.ac.uk together with all accompanying 
documentation, e.g. participant information sheets and consent forms, by the deadline set by UEC. 
Templates for the participant information sheet and consent form and the deadlines for submitting 
applications can be found on the ethics website. RKES will process for sponsorship and management 
approval and inform the CI of the decision. 
•     The UEC will consider the application and may approve it; or may seek further information; or may not 
approve it. The Chief Investigator will be informed of the outcome of UEC’s deliberations. 
•     If the application is approved, then confirmation of insurance cover will also be provided to the CI. 
•     If further information is required the CI will be told what this is. The UEC may decide that the further 
information has to go back to UEC for consideration and approval, or the Convener/Vice- Convener may 
be delegated authority to approve it on behalf of Committee. 
• The CI will be told of the outcome. 
• The CI must ensure that final revisions have been communicated to UEC within one year  of initial review 
by UEC of the application for ethical approval.  Failure to do so will mean that a new application must be 
submitted. 
 
 
 
Departmental/School Ethics Committee 
 
 
•     The Chief Investigator (CI) should complete the University application form (as above). 
•     If study involves the NHS or has external funding then the completed form has to be sent to ethics@ 
strath.ac.uk (together with all accompanying documentation). RKES will process for sponsorship and 
management decision, as well as confirmation of insurance cover. The CI will be informed as to the 
decision. 
•     At the same time the completed form can be sent to the department for consideration by the DEC/ 
SEC. 
•     If the study does not involve the NHS and has no external funding then the Head of Department may take 
the decision on sponsorship and management and can approve the study if satisfied. 
•     The DEC/SEC will consider the ethical dimension of the study and may approve it; or seek further 
information; or may not approve it. The DEC/SEC may have set deadlines for applications and 
investigators should be aware of these. The DEC/SEC will notify the CI of the outcome of its deliberations. 
•     If further information is required the CI will be told what is required. 
•     Once approved, the DEC/SEC will notify the CI accordingly. 
 
 
HaSS applications 
 
 
There are different processes and procedures for HaSS applications to the UEC and their SEC, please 
contact the HaSS Research and Knowledge Exchange support team (RaKET) by email on  hass-rke@strath.

--- PAGE 10 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
10  
 
ac.uk or refer to www.strath.ac.uk/ethics for guidance.

--- PAGE 11 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
11  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
Procedures for ethics applications for investigations involving human beings: 
Submission to University Ethics Committee

--- PAGE 12 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
12  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
Procedures for ethics applications for investigations involving human beings: submission to  
Departmental/School Ethics Committee

--- PAGE 13 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
13  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
1.      Projects which require consideration by the U E C 
 
 
Investigations governed by the Code that involve any of the following types of projects or 
participants must be submitted to the UEC for prior approval: 
 
1.1.   Project considerations 
 
 
Studies must be considered by the UEC if they involve: 
 
i.    any significant harm or serious discomfort of a physical or psychological nature 
ii. an extensive degree or duration of exercise or physical exertion beyond that to which all the 
participants are habitually accustomed 
iii.   the collection and/or use of human biological tissue and/or fluid 
iv.   the use of an invasive procedure 
v.   the isolation and profiling/typing of an individual’s DNA 
vi.  intentional deception of participants where the true nature of the study is such that there is a 
possibility of causing physical or psychological harm or distress 
vii.  activity which can be classed as a clinical trial or any type of investigation of a pharmaceutical drug, 
medical procedure or medical device (see Annex 7 for the definition of ‘medical device’) 
viii. the administration o r discontinuation of pharmaceutical drugs, liquids or other substances not 
normally consumed by the general population 
ix.   a situation where highly personal, intimate or other private or confidential information of a  
personal nature is sought 
x.   the NHS, where the criteria in Section B9 (below) apply. Check that NHS approval is needed 
– use of NHS staff and premises may not in themselves be criteria for requirement of NHS  
approval. 
 
1.2    Participant considerations 
 
 
Studies must be considered by the UEC if they involve a group of participants who are in a situation of 
special vulnerability (e.g. women of childbearing potential where the investigation might carry any risk to 
pregnancy orto a foetus, or persons with addictions). This may include those who: 
 
i.    are severely ill or have a terminal illness 
ii. are prisoners or young offenders, or are awaiting trial for a crime or offence that is relevant to 
the project 
iii.   are potentially subject to coercive measures by government, such as detention, 
restrictions on movement, deportation or repatriation 
iv.   live in or are connected to an institutional environment; 
v.   have a physical disability or a chronic physical condition relevant to the subject of the 
investigation and for whom participation in the investigation may pose a risk to their 
wellbeing 
vi.  are  unable  to  consent  for  themselves  or  have  significant  learning  difficulties  and/or  serious 
mental health issues and/or cognitive impairment of a nature and extent that would affect their ability 
to give informed voluntary consent (see sections 4.3.7 and 4.3.8). Not all projects where children 
under the age of 12 are participants need  to  be  submitted to the UEC. Unless  another of  the 
conditions in 1.1 or 1.2 above applies, projects where children under the age of 12 are participants 
may be submitted to the DEC/SEC. 
 
 
If you require any further advice on this please contact ethics@strath.ac.uk.

--- PAGE 14 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
14  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
2.      Projects which may be considered by a Departmental/School 
Ethics Committee 
 
 
Where it is clear that a study does not involve any of the criteria which require it to be referred to the UEC, 
or when the UEC has delegated authority, then DEC/SECs can approve investigations involving human 
participants. The DEC/SEC may, where appropriate, consider generic framework applications, see Section 
B3 below. If a DEC/SEC has any doubts about any particular investigation it is asked to consider, or if it does 
not have the relevant expertise to make a determination on an application submitted to it, or if it cannot reach 
agreement, then this will be referred to the UEC for consideration. 
 
 
 
3.      Generic framework approvals and procedures 
 
 
Three types of generic framework exist: 
 
•     groups of similar investigations or teaching exercises involving human participants 
•     devolvement of certain studies from the UEC to a DEC/SEC 
•     use of simplified approval procedures by a DEC/SEC for a class of investigations under its remit. 
 
Such approvals last for three years. 
 
3.1.   Multistudy approval 
 
 
3.1.1 Procedures and approval 
 
It is possible to receive ethical approval for groups of similar investigations and teaching exercises by submitting 
an application for approval of a generic framework. Such applications should be submitted to the UEC if the 
multistudy application falls within the remit of the UEC (see Section B1 on page 11) or the appropriate DEC/ 
SEC if the multistudy application does not fall within the remit of the UEC. This should be submitted using 
the multistudy application form (see www.strath.ac.uk/ethics) to the relevant ethics committee. 
 
Once the UEC or DEC/SEC has granted approval of a multistudy application, each individual study that 
falls within this multistudy application will have ethical approval as long as it remains within the parameters 
of the approved multistudy application and will not need to seek individual ethical approval from the relevant 
ethics committee. Any study that does not fall or remain within the parameters of the framework must be 
approved by the relevant ethics committee before it can commence/continue. Multistudy application approval 
is normally for a period of three years. 
 
Examples of when this approach may be used would be: 
 
•     where approval is required for a specific teaching exercise to be used over several years; 
•     where approval is required for a number of related investigations that adopt the same procedure(s), 
and/or use the same research materials, and/or have related objectives, over a period of years. This 
could apply to student dissertations.

--- PAGE 15 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
15  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
3.1.2  Annual monitoring 
 
The Chief Investigator/Course Leader must keep records of the individual investigations and/or teaching 
exercises that have begun and that fall within the remit of the multistudy application approval in order 
to monitor compliance and ensure that current professional standards are being maintained. The records 
will include investigations/teaching exercise titles, investigators, ethics approval date, start and end dates 
of the project, management approval date. The DEC/SEC will report annually to the UEC on approvals 
of multistudy applications and the individual investigations and/or teaching exercises which fall within the 
multistudy application, as part of the DEC/SEC annual monitoring exercise. The CI will report annually to the 
UEC in relation to multistudy applications approved by the UEC, as part of the annual monitoring exercise of 
ongoing investigations. 
 
3.1.3  Risk management 
 
The University’s Risk Management Framework (www.strath.ac.uk/safetyservices/riskmanagement) should be 
followed by the CI. 
 
3.2     Devolvement 
 
 
3.2.1  Procedures and approval 
 
A DEC/SEC can apply to the UEC to request the UEC to devolve responsibility for ethical approval to the 
DEC/SEC for certain categories of investigations which would normally fall within the remit of the UEC 
(See Section B1 on page 11) but where the DEC/SEC considers that it has the appropriate expertise to 
consider such investigations. An application for devolvement should be made on the ‘Request to devolve 
responsibility’ form. The devolvement application should be sufficiently detailed to allow the UEC to make 
an informed decision as to whether devolvement would be appropriate. 
 
If the UEC approves the devolvement application, the DEC/SEC must only approve investigations that clearly 
fall within the parameters detailed in the application form. Should the DEC/SEC have any doubt that an 
investigation does fall within these parameters or if the DEC/SEC is uncomfortable about granting ethical 
approval for any individual application then this should be referred to the UEC for consideration and approval. 
 
3.2.2  Annual monitoring 
 
The DEC/SEC must keep records of the individual investigations that fall within the remit of the devolvement 
and that it grants ethical approval for. The DEC/SEC will be required to report on these records annually to 
the UEC as part of the DEC/SEC annual monitoring exercise. 
 
3.3     Simplified approval procedures 
 
 
Generic frameworks may cover groups of investigations that would normally fall within the remit of the DEC/ 
SEC, but where the DEC/SEC wishes to use a streamlined procedure. This might include forms adapted to a 
particular class of investigations, standardised consent forms, exclusion criteria, etc. This type of framework 
is approved by the DEC/SEC but is reported to UEC as part of the DEC/SEC annual monitoring exercise. 
 
3.4     Risk management 
 
 
The  University’s  Risk  Management  Framework  (http://www.strath.ac.uk/safetyservices/riskmanagement/) 
should be followed by the CI.

--- PAGE 16 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
16  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
4.       Specific ethical principles 
 
4.1.    Suitability of investigators 
 
 
4.1.1  General suitability 
 
All investigators must have the necessary expertise and experience to carry out their role in connection 
with the investigation. The Committee may seek proof of training for certain procedures and may ask for 
a curriculum vitae (CV) to be provided. The CI has, and must accept, responsibility for the oversight and 
monitoring of the investigation, the work undertaken as part of the investigation, and must meet all reporting 
requirements, including reporting of any change of staff on the project. 
 
4.1.2  Protection of vulnerable groups 
 
Membership of the Protection of Vulnerable Groups (PVG) scheme is available for certain groups of people 
undertaking regulated work with children (a person under 18 years of age) or a protected adult (someone aged 
16+ in receipt of one or more care, health or welfare service).  Regulated work is defined by a set of criteria 
listed on the Disclosure Scotland website.  If a member of staff is appointed to a role in the university which 
counts as regulated work, then HR will assist with an application to join the PVG scheme.  However, it is current 
practice for data gathering as part of research activity to be considered by Disclosure Scotland as incidental to 
main employment duties in a university and therefore, they have not been accepting PVG applications fo r 
research purposes.  Research which may have an influence on NHS service provision may be an exception to 
this and may be able to gain PVG scheme membership more easily. Disclosure Scotland may provide 
alternative types of Disclosure for some research studies (the categories are currently Basic, Standard and 
Enhanced).    Alternatively, the University can provide a letter for gatekeeper organisations or gatekeepers 
within organisations stating that data gathering is not considered to be an activity which r equires membership of 
the PVG scheme. Please contact (Lorna Dougall (l.dougall@strath.ac.uk) for further information. Applicants are 
advised that appropriate safeguards for the protection of participants (vulnerable or otherwise) should form part 
of an ethics application, where appropriate, irrespective of the status of PVG membership.  
 
 
4.2     Recruitment of participants 
 
 
4.2.1  General principles governing recruitment 
 
Methods of recruitment must be consistent with the need to obtain informed consent (see below). There 
should be no indication, express or implied, of any expectation of an agreement to participate. Generally, no 
inducement should be offered to a participant or proposed participant. Any payment, other than expenses or 
small remuneration for time spent, must be justified.

--- PAGE 17 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
17  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
4.2.2  Recruitment procedure 
 
•     In all cases details of the methods proposed for the recruitment of participants must be provided in the 
application to the relevant Committee. 
•     The process of recruitment should normally be initiated via a letter, notice or, if orally, through a group 
approach rather than to individuals. 
•     Where advertising is to be used, the form of the advertisement and the publicity method(s) to be 
adopted for bringing it to the attention of potential participants should be stated in the application. Draft 
advertisements should be provided with the application for approval. 
•     Where it is proposed to undertake random street or doorstep surveys, telephone interviews, mail 
or email surveys, details of these must be included in the application. 
•     Investigators should justify the number of participants to be included in each investigation. For 
example, a calculation of the statistical power may be appropriate. If an investigation is ‘underpowered’ 
then further justification of validity should be given. 
•     Where the investigation involves the recruitment of non-native English speakers the Committee 
will wish to be clear about the inclusion/exclusion criteria for the investigation, and be assured that 
the information about the investigation is presented in an appropriate form and that interpreters and 
translators are used appropriately to the investigation. The Committee may ask for further information 
about the qualifications and experience of the interpreters/translators involved before approving the 
investigation and may request that such individuals be bound by appropriate confidentiality obligations. 
 
4.3 Informed consent 
 
 
General principle 
 
It is a general principle that participants have to consent to take part, and consent to the use of any material 
or personal information. Consent should be voluntary and informed. This principle applies during the course 
of an investigation as well as when the participant consents to take part. In some situations (detailed at 4.3.3 
below) this principle is qualified. 
 
 
4.3.1 Informed consent during the investigation 
 
Should new information relevant to voluntary consent emerge during the investigation, this information must 
be communicated to each participant. Where, for any reason, a participant wishes to withdraw from the 
investigation, or wishes to withdraw some or all of their data, that wish must be respected. Data which is 
held anonymously cannot be withdrawn once collected and this should be made clear to the participant in 
accompanying documentation. If the participant wishes it, an opportunity should be provided for him or her to 
discuss in private decisions relating to withdrawal. 
 
Participants should be made aware that at no time do they have to answer any questions, or participate in 
any activity, that they may feel uncomfortable with. Incomplete answers may invalidate s ome standardised 
questionnaires and while participants still have the right not to answer any question, researchers may 
encourage participants in the written instructions to complete the entire questionnaire. Howeve r, participants 
must be fully informed as to the nature of the questions before beginning a questionnaire, particularly where 
there are any questions relating to sensitive or personal information.

--- PAGE 18 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
18  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
4.3.2 Loss of capacity to consent during an investigation 
 
Should a participant in the course of an investigation lose the capacity (see Section 4.3.7 below) to consent 
they cease to be a participant unless someone able to legally consent on their behalf does so. As ‘capacity’ 
applies to specific tasks at a specific moment in time, a person may lose capacity to consent to one part of 
a study while retaining capacity to consent to other parts. Similarly, capacity to consent may fluctuate across 
time and consent may need to be re-taken at later intervals. The mechanism and underlying rationale for 
assessing capacity and taking consent with any population who may have fluctuating or deteriorating capacity 
should be fully outlined in the application. 
 
4.3.3 Where informed or fully informed consent is not required 
 
It is recognised that some investigations would be invalid if the participants were to be made aware of the 
whole nature of the investigation or the nature of some aspects of the investigation. The general principles in 
such circumstances are: 
 
•     the chief investigator will have determined that alternative procedures are not available;  
•     that the information withheld is the minimum necessary; and 
•     that the likely reaction of a participant if, after taking part when told of the nature of the investigation or 
those aspects of it, would not cause discomfort, anger or objection. 
 
The Committee endorses the guidance issued by the British Psychological Society in its Code of Conduct, 
namely: 
 
“The withholding of information or the misleading of participants is unacceptable if the participants are 
typically likely to object or show unease once debriefed. Where this is in any doubt, appropriate consultation 
must precede the investigation. Consultation is best carried out with individuals who share the social and 
cultural background of the participants in the research, but the advice of ethics committees or experienced 
and disinterested colleagues may be sufficient. Intentional deception of the participants over the purpose 
and general nature of the investigation should be avoided whenever possible. Participants should never be 
deliberately misled without extremely strong scientific or medical justification. Even then there should be strict 
controls and the disinterested approval of independent advisors.” 
 
4.3.4  Information to be given to proposed participants 
 
 
4.3.4.1 Information in writing – information sheet 
 
For investigations that fall within the remit of the UEC or DEC/SEC, and more generally those in which a 
participant will need to reflect to make an informed decision to participate, it is normal that each proposed 
participant is given an information sheet. Additionally, the investigator should discuss the investigation with him 
or her and answer fully and informatively any questions about it. Information sheets must be submitted with 
the application to the relevant ethics committee for consideration and approval. A template for the Participant 
Information Sheet (PIS) can be found at www.strath.ac.uk/ethics. 
 
The PIS should: 
 
•     be in a form that is readily understood by the individual proposed participant, or his/her parent or guardian, 
or other person legally empowered to act, where appropriate 
•     take account of any vulnerability of the proposed participant 
•     provide full, relevant details of the nature, objectives and duration of the proposed investigation  
•     inform proposed participants who the investigators conducting the investigation are and what their 
designation is, particularly if any of them are students 
•     detail the procedures the investigation will involve and whether any discomfort or inconvenience is likely 
to be caused during the investigation or afterwards

--- PAGE 19 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
19  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
•     detail any risks to physical or psychological health that the investigation may  pose 
•     state that the proposed participant may withdraw at any time and that in that event data arising from his 
or her participation will be destroyed, unless the participant specifically states at that time that the data 
may be retained 
•     state that confidentiality and anonymity will be maintained. Any waiver of confidentiality must be justified 
and agreed by the participant in writing. Where the investigation is one in which there is a significant 
likelihood that participants might disclose information relating to serious harm or immediate danger (e.g. 
in investigations relating to people at high risk of abuse), the circumstances in which the investigator will 
need to pass on information about that should be stated (see 4.5 below) 
•     state that data gathered will be securely stored, how long it will be retained, and that it will be used only 
for the investigation, or detail that it might be used to inform future investigations. If it is to be used for any 
other investigation, now or in the future, participants must be told and must consent to this. 
 
4.3.4.2 Information in writing – other forms of communication 
 
There are some situations, e.g. an investigation about a person’s experience in the workplace or in a position 
in an organisation or body where that information is of a non-sensitive nature, the information may be 
communicated in the form of a letter or an email. 
 
Investigators are encouraged to provide feedback on the outcomes of the investigation to those who 
participated in the investigation. 
 
4.3.4.3 Information given orally 
 
Where the investigation is low risk and potential participants do not have to understand complex issues, 
then information can be given orally if appropriate to the research method (for example, street or telephone 
interviews). The investigator should use a script which should address the same issues as the written 
information sheets, where appropriate, and include a copy of the script with the application.  
 
4.3.5 Consent forms 
 
 
Consent is given by the agreement of a person to participate in a research study. Documenting this consent 
provides protection for a researcher should a participant later claim that they did not wish to participate 
or had done so under false pretences. It also provides an additional check as to what understanding the 
participant has concerning the research and their involvement in it. Consequently, the University requires that 
documented consent be obtained wherever possible. 
 
Consent should be obtained in an appropriate way. The mode of consent should be expressed in a way that 
is readily understood by the proposed participant, or his/her parent, guardian, or person legally empowered 
to act. The mode of form should take account of any vulnerability of the proposed participa nt. 
 
Except in the circumstances detailed below every participant should sign a consent form following information 
being given as above within information sheets. Consent forms must be submitted with the application to the 
ethics committee for consideration and approval. A template for the consent form can be found on the website 
www.strath.ac.uk/ethics. Note that while the NHS requires the use of tick boxes or initials to each bullet point 
on a consent form, for research not involving the NHS, UEC recommends that a single signature at the bottom 
of the consent form is necessary and sufficient to give documented understanding of all the bullet points and 
consent to participate. The only exception to this is where some parts of the study are optional (e.g. access 
to medical records, audio or video recording) where a yes/no bullet point can be included (note: if audio or 
video recording is necessary then this should be given as a normal bullet point without a yes/no option and 
willingness to be recorded as part of the study should be included as an inclusion criterion).

--- PAGE 20 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
20  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
Potential participants should be given time to consider the information sheet if there are risks, ethical issues or 
other considerations which may require reflection on whether to participate or not (e.g. time commitment), and 
the consent form will include a statement which confirms that the participant has understood the information in 
the information sheet. Specific consent to audio or video recording, where this is proposed to be used, must 
be given. 
 
Where samples of human biological material are to be taken the form must include consent to  their use. 
The Chief Investigator must retain copies of the signed consent forms for each participant.  
Other forms of consent 
 
4.3.6 Implied consent 
 
 
In the circumstances described above, where information is not provided through a written sheet, consent  
can be given in a corresponding way – email, letter, orally, or via a check box on a webpage or questionnaire. 
Completing and returning a questionnaire (or pressing a ‘submit’ button online) may also be taken as consent. 
When a telephone interview is to be recorded the participant must consent and that agreement should ideally 
be included in the audio recording 
 
4.3.7 Obtaining consent from participants whose cognitive ability is impaired 
 
 
It should be determined by a person with appropriate expertise whether any proposed participant whose 
cognitive ability is impaired may lack capacity to consent. If a person with appropriate expertise is not able to 
confirm that a proposed participant is capable of giving informed consent then the investigator must contact a 
person who can act on his or her behalf (this may be a parent, someone with legal power appointed under a 
Welfare Power of Attorney, or a Guardian appointed under the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000, or 
a carer). This person should confirm whether or not the proposed participant is able to give informed consent, 
and if not will be responsible for giving, or refusing, consent. The investigator should also be clear that the 
participant is happy to take part in the investigation and record that in writing in an appropriate form. 
 
If any proposed participant’s cognitive ability is to an extent impaired but sufficient to understand and 
give consent, then consent must be obtained from him or her, and additionally the consent of any person 
empowered to act on his or her behalf must be obtained. 
 
 
4.3.8 Obtaining consent from participants under the age of 16 
 
 
Researchers recruiting participants under the age of 16 are normally expected to gain written consent from 
parents, or other(s) with parental responsibilities, to include their children in the study. Consent should also 
be obtained from the child, normally after that. Researchers may require the child ’s consent to be in writing 
(depending on the nature of the study and the age, maturity and life experience of the child) but if given orally, 
for example as an expression by the child that he or she is happy to participate, researchers should maintain 
a record showing that consent was given. 
 
There may be circumstances where it is not possible to gain parental consent due to the nature of the 
study (e.g. a street interview), or situations where seeking parental consent is deemed unnecessary due to 
the nature of the study and the context of the child. However, even where a research question may seem 
entirely harmless, it may not be the case for a particular group or a particular child and any study not seeking 
parental consent on this ground must fully justify this approach (taking into account the standpoint of parents 
wishing to be involved and informed on any research involving their children and any known views of the child 
with respect to the question). It may be appropriate instead to obtain consent from a person who acts as a 
‘gatekeeper’ to the child or children (e.g. a head teacher) rather than from parents but this approach must also 
be fully justified in the application.

--- PAGE 21 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
21  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
4.3.8.1 Active/passive consent of parents 
 
It is generally expected that active (opt-in) consent will be sought unless there is sound justification for passive 
consent (opt-out). The decision to seek active or passive parental consent will depend on several factors 
including the nature of the study and views of gatekeepers and other stakeholders. 
 
 
4.3.8.2 ‘Looked after’ children 
 
Where a child is a ‘looked after’ child (e.g. in residential care) the investigators must identify who has ‘parental 
responsibilities’ with respect to that child. Permission must be obtained from the appropriate person or 
organisation that has parental responsibilities to contact that child. In doing this, information about the nature 
of the investigation and its potential impact on the child should be given to that person.  
 
If a parent has ‘parental responsibilities’ but in view of the best interests of the child, for instance, in the light 
of a background of harm to the child or breakdown of family relationships, consent should not be sought from 
that parent or other family member. 
 
In all other situations the consent of the person with ‘parental responsibilities’ should be obtained. The 
investigator should also be clear that the child is happy to take part and record that in writing in an appropriate 
form. 
 
 
4.4.   Anonymity 
 
As a general principle, participants should not be identifiable in the investigation outputs, except where they are 
providing information as experts and have consented to being identified. Investigators should, where possible, 
follow general Data Protection Act principles, in particular by either anonymising or pseudo-anonymising data 
as soon as possible. Section D sets out guidance in relation to the Data Protection Act 1998. 
 
Detailed reasons should be given in the application as to why it is proposed not to follow this principle. In such 
a case express waiver of the principle should be included in the consent form. The waiver should be of the 
minimum necessary extent. 
 
4.5.   Information of criminal or other wrongful conduct 
 
There is no general requirement to pass on information relating to criminal or other wrongful conduct. However, 
there are important exceptions and certain other requirements in particular contexts:  
 
4.5.1 Criminal or other wrongful conduct by participants 
 
•    Where the investigation is of a nature that any participant will, or will be likely, to refer to things he or is 
doing or has done that constitute a criminal offence, the researcher should ask the participant if he or she 
is comfortable with revealing such information. This and the participant’s response should be recorded in 
writing. If the participant says he or she is not comfortable, the researcher should not take any steps that 
will be likely to lead to the participant’s revealing that information. If this entails terminating the research 
with that participant the investigator should avoid conveying any impression that the participant should 
change his or her mind.   If the study involves a group setting, then the researcher should ask each 
participant present whether they are comfortable with having such information revealed and establish 
agreed rules for confidentiality.  If there is an objection then the researcher must decide whether to ask 
the speaker not to reveal such information or to excuse the objector from the session.

--- PAGE 22 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
22  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
•    Where, in the course of research, comments are made to the researcher concerning a third party that 
might be considered to be offensive or defamatory, the researcher should take particular care when 
considering how the results of the research are to be disseminated.  Repetition of any opinion that may 
be considered defamatory could be subject to legal action and should be avoided and in all c ases the 
source of any potentially controversial or defamatory opinion stemming from the research should be 
anonymised. 
•    Where the researcher identifies that the proposed research might touch upon matters that are the 
subject of an on-going criminal investigation, the researcher should seek guidance from the UEC before 
proceeding any further. In such circumstances, it is likely that the UEC will require the researcher to seek 
the approval of the relevant authorities before continuing with the research.  
•     Where a participant discloses that someone is being physically or psychologically harmed, by him or her, 
or is at risk of immediate harm or danger (whether physical, psychological or otherwise) by him or her, 
the investigator should terminate the interview or other interaction with the participant, tell the participant 
that he or she needs to report the information, discuss with the participant how he or she can best be 
supported in the circumstances, and should report that information to the UEC. Where the researcher 
believes that the participant may cause imminent harm to someone then they should report this to the 
police as soon as possible and in addition, inform the UEC. 
•     Where a participant discloses that he or she is engaged in other exc eptionally serious criminal activities, 
for instance, large scale fraud or blackmail, the investigator should, when such information is revealed, 
inform the participant that he or she needs to terminate the research with them, and seek guidance from 
the UEC. 
 
4.5.2 Criminal or wrongful conduct by persons other than participants 
 
•     Where a participant discloses that he or she has been harmed or is at risk of immediate harm or danger 
(whether physical, psychological or otherwise), the investigator should pass on that information to a person 
who can give support to the participant. Before doing this the investigator should discuss this with the 
participant, and discuss how he or she can best be involved, with support, in the circumstances.  
•     Where a participant discloses that someone else is in immediate physical or psychological danger 
from another person or is being seriously physically or psychologically harmed by such as person, the 
investigator should report that to the police and, if appropriate, someone who could help that person, and 
discuss how the participant can be best supported in the circumstances. They should also inform the UEC 
as soon as possible. 
•     Where a participant discloses he or she or someone else is a victim of or is immediately threatened 
with being a victim of exceptionally serious crime in other ways such as through large  scale  fraud  or 
blackmail,  and which has not been reported to the police. The investigator should, inform the participant 
that he or she needs to terminate the research with them, and seek guidance from the UEC.  
 
4.6    Biological and medical investigations and previous medical history 
 
 
4.6.1 Donation of samples etc 
 
Where any biological sample is taken from a participant, the consent form should include wording that that 
material becomes the property of the University (for background information see Annex 5).

--- PAGE 23 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
23  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
4.6.2 Previous medical history 
 
Only where appropriate, should participants be asked about their previous medical history. Where the 
investigation involves an invasive procedure or may have a potential impact on the mental or 
physical health of a participant who is undergoing treatment, it is good practice to send a letter to 
the participant’s GP or other medical adviser. This may only be done with the participant’s permission. 
 
In certain circumstances, the ethics committee or the University’s Insurers may require that a person with 
suitable medical qualifications should be responsible for an investigation or in attendance when certain 
procedures are carried out, or that facilities for emergency medical care should be at hand. It may require 
in certain cases that participants should be medically screened before taking part in an investigation (e.g. 
via ECG). Where appropriate, safeguards regarding communicable diseases should be taken to protect the 
participant, the investigator and others involved in the work. 
 
4.7.   Medical records and other records relating to care, education, etc 
 
 
The general principle is that participants’ records (for example medical records, social work or school records) 
are not accessed as they are confidential. 
 
If it is intended to access participants’ records detailed reasons should be given in the application as to why it 
is proposed not to follow this principle. In such a case an express permission to access records should be 
included in the consent form. The permission should be of the minimum necessary extent. A form for obtaining 
permission from the person or body holding the records should also be included in the ethics application. 
 
4.8    Research in relation to deceased persons 
 
Wherever research is carried out that involves an investigation of any aspect of a person who is deceased, 
the research should respect the dignity of that deceased person and of family members. 
 
4.9    Cadaveric tissue 
 
 
The Code of Practice deals primarily with the ethical considerations involving living human beings. However, 
for some research, it is necessary to work with whole, or parts of, deceased bodies. There are two 
aspects to working with deceased human beings. First, the investigator must ensure that he/she is legally 
allowed to work with such tissue, and secondly, there is the issue of the ethical considerations of working 
with such tissue. The law in Scotland is different to that of the rest of the UK. To work with cadaveric 
tissue you must either hold an appropriate licence from Her Majesty’s Inspector for Anatomy in Scotland, 
or work in collaboration with a licence holder. The major ethical issue is one of informed consent, agreed at 
the time of body donation. All research involving cadaveric tissue should be reviewed by the UEC unless this 
responsibility has been devolved to a DEC/SEC. See Annex 6 for more detail. 
 
All research involving human tissue (defined as any solid or fluid containing human cells, which includes 
urine) must be approved by the UEC, or a DEC with appropriate devolved powers.  All human tissue 
obtained directly from volunteers must be obtained through appropriately trained sta ff. The ethics 
application must make it clear the level of training of the research group in this regard.  Tissue may also be 
obtained via regulated tissue banks, for example the NHSGGC Bio-repository, which have generic NHS 
approval for research purposes. These ‘biobanks’ will review an application for tissue, and once approved, 
they will release anonymous tissue to appropriate researchers. Whilst an IRAS (NHS) ethics applic ation is 
not required in this case, researchers must still complete a UEC application.

--- PAGE 24 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
24  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
4.10  Exposure to risk, including location of investigations 
 
 
The places where investigations are to be undertaken must be appropriate to the type of study and the risks 
involved. This includes consideration of the investigator – who should not be placed in a vulnerable situation – 
as well as the participants. The ethics committee reserves the right to visit and inspect any such facility. Within 
the University all research and teaching investigations involving humans should be carried out in line with the 
University’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy and Regulations. For any investigations being conducted 
elsewhere investigators will be required to comply with the Health and Safety rules in place at that site. Where 
research takes place at premises other than the University’s premises, the Chief Investigator must ensure 
that suitable Health and Safety arrangements are in place before research commences. Under legislation any 
premises used for conducting clinical trial work will be subject to good clinical practice and, where appropriate, 
good manufacturing practice inspections. These will be conducted under the auspices of the MHRA and 
will incur a fee. 
 
 
 
5.      Approval procedures: University Ethics Committee 
 
 
The UEC meets on a monthly basis to consider applications submitted to it by the submission deadline 
published on the University’s website (www.strath.ac.uk/ethics). From the time of receipt of an application, the 
Committee will usually make its decision within 60 days. However, if the Committee seeks further information 
from the investigators then the timescale is suspended until the Committee is satisfied that all its points of 
concern have been answered. The UEC Secretariat will communicate this decision to the Chief Investigator 
in writing as soon as practicable after the decision is made. 
 
5.1    Powers of the Committee in considering applications 
 
 
The Committee may: 
 
•     approve the application 
•     approve the application subject to conditions being satisfied 
•     not approve the application 
•     defer consideration of the application subject to further information being sought and obtained from the 
investigators or from experts external to the Committee and/or the University of Strathclyde 
•     take such other decision as is appropriate. 
 
 
5.2    Applications not approved 
 
 
Where the application is not approved this decision, and the reasons for reaching that decision, will be 
communicated to the Chief Investigator in writing. The Committee may give guidance as to modifications that 
the applicant may wish to consider with a view to making a new application. 
 
5.3    Applications deferred or approved subject to conditions being satisfied 
 
 
If further information or amendments are sought for a particular application from the relevant investigators, 
the Convener (or Vice Convener of the Committee) may be delegated authority by the committee to consider 
the additional information or changes made and either to approve it on behalf of the committee or to return it 
to the committee for further consideration. The information and amendments must be provided before ethical 
approval can be given. Any decisions will be reported to the next meeting of the Committee for endorsement.

--- PAGE 25 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
25  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
6.    Amendments to investigations following ethical approval 
 
 
Once an application is approved the investigators must not deviate from it as approved. The CI must notify 
the committee of any proposed amendments and allow the committee (or the Convener or Vice Convener 
on behalf of the committee) time to consider and approve them before implementing them. Similarly, if there 
is any change to the personnel involved in the investigation, the committee should be asked to approve this 
amendment and should be provided with details of the qualifications and experience of the new investigator(s). 
If such amendments are minor they may be handled by the UEC outwith its committee meetings (normally 
by the Convener or Vice Convener). If, however, the proposed changes are more substantial then they will 
be considered by the committee at its next meeting and, in some instances, a revised application may be 
requested. Failure to obtain ethical approval for amendments may invalidate insurance cover. 
 
In the case of an investigation that is the subject of NHS Research Ethics Committee (REC) approval, a copy 
of the ‘substantial amendment form’ as obtained from the NHS REC, should be submitted to the UEC for 
consideration also. 
 
 
7. Student investigations and investigations of members of staff 
undertaking degrees 
 
 
For student investigations involving the NHS please refer to Section 9 below. 
 
It is recognised that many student investigations and dissertations may fall within the remit of this code 
of practice. Courses, particularly within the social sciences and business subject areas, typically contain 
large numbers of students who may have made their own project proposals which are usually low risk 
from the ethical point of view. The responsible academic usually plays a purely supervisory role rather than 
an investigatory role, although for the purposes of this Code of Practice he or she is formally Chief 
Investigator (apart from some investigations involving the NHS – see Section 9). In these situations it is 
valuable for departments to have good screening processes in place to filter out unsuitable investigations 
before students have invested much time. The scrutiny of those which are to go ahead despite being more 
complex is prioritised, and a light touch procedure may be used for the other investigations. If this is the case 
then the generic framework should include a description of these procedures. 
 
Students acting as investigators, and members of staff carrying out research as part of work towards obtaining 
a degree, should be under the supervision of a member of staff who is minimum Grade 7 (or equivalent). 
Students, and members of staff in this position, cannot apply for ethical approval themselves (apart from 
some investigations involving the NHS, see Section 9). Applications must be made by the supervisor 
acting, for this purpose, as Chief Investigator. The supervisor, on behalf of the University, is responsible 
for all actions of the students (and members of staff in this position) relating to the investigation and hence it is 
the supervisor’s responsibility to ensure that the student is aware of and observes the relevant guidelines and 
receives appropriate training in any procedures and techniques to be undertaken as part of the investigation. 
As with all investigations involving human participants, supervisors should take responsibility for submitting 
details of the proposed investigations for approval where necessary and for ensuring that all necessary 
approvals are in place before the investigation commences. See also Section B3 (above) on generic approval.

--- PAGE 26 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
26  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
8. Collaborative investigations with other universities, non- 
governmental organisations (NGOs) and other organisations 
 
 
For investigations involving collaboration with other universities, NGOs or other organisations, applications 
should be submitted to RKES for consideration of risk management/sponsorship and insurance cover before 
the investigation begins. Ethical approval is normally only required from the Ethics Committee at one of 
the collaborating universities or organisations, normally the university or organisation which is sponsoring 
the investigation. RKES will advise on whether or not the application should be submitted to the UEC at 
Strathclyde. The University will consider collaborative research with other organisations, providing their 
ethical processes have been considered by the UEC at Strathclyde to be robust and rigorous. Whatever the 
ethical approval route, the application will be forwarded by RKES to the Finance Office for confirmation of 
insurance cover. 
 
 
 
9.    Investigations involving the NHS, including clinical trials 
 
 
The UEC Secretariat in RKES can offer advice on sponsorship approval and how to complete the IRAS form 
and to submit an application to the NHS, and should be contacted early in the procedure. NHS applications 
cannot be submitted without sponsorship approval so researchers should factor in time for this process when 
considering submissions. 
 
Ethical approval is required from the NHS for most but not all investigations in which it is involved. Details of 
the circumstances in which NHS ethical approval is required, and information on the application procedure, 
can be found on the Integrated Research Application System (IRAS) website at www.myresearchproject.org. 
uk. Investigation s involvin g NHS staff or undertake n on NHS premise s do not necessaril y requir e NHS 
ethica l approval . Pleas e check with the UEC secretaria t if you are in doubt . The authority to award 
ethical approval is delegated to a local NHS Research Ethics Committee (REC), usually in the area where 
the Chief Investigator and/or the NHS body involved are based. The researcher is not required to submit a 
University ethics application form as well as an IRAS form, the IRAS form is sufficient. Once NHS approval is 
in place, then the Convenor will usually endorse the application on behalf of the UEC. 
 
The regulations governing NHS ethical approval are set out in the Governance Arrangements for Research 
Ethics Committees in Scotland and regulations for research governance in the Research Governance 
Framework for Health and Community Care (2006). 
 
Research and investigations involving medicines are regulated under the Medicines for Human Use (Clinical 
Trials) Regulations 2004. All clinical trials must be notified to the Medicines and Healthcare Products 
Regulatory Agency (MHRA) which approves and licences the use of such products for clinical trials. Similarly, 
research involving medicinal devices is also regulated by MHRA.

--- PAGE 27 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
27  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
9.1  Process 
 
 
The application should first be submitted to RKES for sponsorship and management risk approval and 
confirmation of insurance cover. Approval should then be sought from the NHS, in terms of research and 
ethical approval. Thereafter, ethical approval can be given by the Convener on behalf of the UEC. 
 
 
 
Submit application to RKES 
for sponsorship and or 
management approval. 
 
 
 
 
RKES will forward 
application to Finance 
Office for confirmation 
of insurance. 
 
 
 
 
Seek research and ethical 
approval from NHS 
 
 
 
 
Ethical approval can be given 
by Convener on behalf of UEC. 
This is coordinated by RKES 
and does not require action 
by investigator. 
 
 
 
 
 
9.2 Honorary contracts 
 
 
Where a University employee or student, as part of an investigation, is conducting activities which will have 
a direct impact on the care of NHS patients, the employee or student will be accountable to the NHS body 
for this work and will need to hold an Honorary contract with the NHS body. The Chief Investigator of such 
an investigation must ensure that such contracts are in place before work on the investigation proceeds. The 
Chief Investigator should discuss such contracts with RKES. 
 
9.3 Model agreement for non-commercial research with the NHS 
 
 
A model agreement for research carried out between Universities and the NHS has been produced 
by the UK Clinical Research Collaboration (UKCRC). Full details can be found at www.ukcrc.org/ 
regulationgovernance/modelagreements/mnca.aspx.

--- PAGE 28 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
28  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
The model agreement is a template for documenting the relationship between, and the responsibilities of, the 
non-commercial sponsor(s) of a research study (the University) and the Health Service organisation where 
the study takes place. The agreement is intended to be used in a range of research scenarios including 
clinical trials, medical device studies, research using patient data only, and research using human tissue. 
 
RKES will provide guidance on when this agreement should be used and the implications involved. 
 
9.4    Student investigations 
 
 
In April 2008, new guidance was issued by the NHS advising that for all doctoral research, the student should 
be named as Chief Investigator on NHS ethics applications. Full guidance can be found at www.nres.npsa. 
nhs.uk/applications/faq/before-applying. For research projects below doctoral level, the named CI should 
normally be the academic supervisor. Please note, although for doctoral research the student should be 
named as the CI, the responsibilities set out in the Research Governance Framework for Health and Social 
Care still fall to the academic supervisor in line with Section 7 above. 
 
10.    Investigations conducted on other premises 
 
If University staff or students wish to carry out investigations with human participants on premises other 
than those of the University of Strathclyde they must determine if ethical approval from any collaborating 
organisation is required (which may be in addition to any ethical approval from the University). Investigators 
should ensure that this ethical approval is obtained, in order to comply with the University’s insurance 
policies. This is particularly important for investigations where the University is the sponsor. Under such 
circumstances investigators will also need to comply with the rules and regulations of the collaborating 
organisation, including health and safety. 
 
11.    Any investigations conducted outside the UK, including 
clinical trials 
 
 
If University staff or students wish to carry out investigations outside the UK and Europe, then the researcher 
should clearly identify a local supervisor who can monitor their research. The researcher must ensure that a 
Code of Practice is sent to the local supervisor. 
 
12.    Adverse events 
 
 
12.1  Adverse events in any type of investigation 
 
 
If participants report any problems during the course of the investigation (either to the investigator or to 
the secretary of the UEC) or if the investigators have any cause for concern, the investigation may need to 
be stopped and the Chief Investigator must inform the UEC of what has occurred. The Chief Investigator 
must report any untoward event arising during an investigation to the UEC as soon as possible and, where 
appropriate, to the participant’s own doctor with his or her consent. Should such a situation occur then the 
investigation should be stopped for the individual in question and consideration should be given to stopping 
the investigation as a whole, depending on the nature and/or severity of the symptom or event. The Secretariat 
to the UEC will inform the University’s Finance Office Insurance Adviser as soon as possible.

--- PAGE 29 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
29  
 
 
 
 
SECTION B: Principles and Procedures 
for Obtaining Ethical Approval 
 
 
12.2. Adverse events in clinical and other medical/biological trials 
 
 
For clinical trials the sponsor is required under law to report all serious adverse events and all suspected 
unexpected adverse reactions that occur to the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency 
(MHRA). For suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions (SUSARs) which occur in clinical trials where 
the University is the sponsor these must be reported to the UEC which is required to report to the MHRA 
within specific time limits. For fatal and life threatening SUSARs the period is seven days for the initial 
report and a further eight days for additional relevant information. For all other SUSARs the period is 15 
days. For clinical trials where the University is not the sponsor, the timescales will be the same but 
investigators must be aware of the need to follow correct reporting procedures. Sponsors are required, under 
law, to provide an annual list of all suspected serious adverse reactions in relation to each product being 
tested. 
 
In addition, where no-fault insurance cover for the investigation has been arranged under the University’s 
clinical trials policy, any serious adverse event must also be reported to the University’s Insurance Adviser in 
the Finance Office as soon as possible, in order that it can be notified to the Insurers as a potential claim. 
 
Participants should also be encouraged to note any unusual or unexpected events or symptoms arising 
during or after an investigation and report them to the investigator and to their own doctor. Depending on the 
nature and/or severity of these events or symptoms, the Chief Investigator should report these to the UEC as 
they might affect the UEC’s decisions on any future similar investigation. If a participant does drop out of an 
investigation, for whatever reason, then the investigators should take reasonable steps to find out whether 
any harm has come to the individual as a result of participating in the investigation. 
 
 
13.   Related approval procedures 
 
 
As well as ethical approval, insurance and sponsorship must be in place before an investigation can begin. 
The procedures are streamlined so that applicants need submit investigations for consideration for ethical, 
sponsorship and insurance purposes only once, as described above. Section C and Annex 4 provide further 
guidance on sponsorship and insurance respectively.

--- PAGE 30 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
30  
 
 
 
 
SECTION C: Management Approval/ 
Sponsorship Procedures 
 
 
1.      Introduction 
 
 
In terms of the University’s sponsorship and management risk procedure, all investigations requiring ethical 
approval must have an identified sponsor. The sponsor is not necessarily the funding body but the individual, 
or organisation (or group of individuals or organisations) that takes on the ultimate responsibility for 
confirming there are proper arrangements to initiate, manage, and monitor an investigation. Annex 2 of this 
Code of Practice sets out the responsibilities of the sponsor. 
 
Normally the sponsor will be the organisation taking the lead for particular aspects of the arrangements 
for the investigation. In the majority of cases this will be the University. However, where the NHS is involved 
in an investigation it may take on the role of sponsor solely or jointly with the University (see Section 3 below 
for more information). 
 
2.      Procedures for University sponsorship 
 
Two separate procedures exist for applying to obtain University sponsorship. Depending on the circumstances, 
an investigation seeking University sponsorship will go through either the RKES procedure or the Head of 
Department procedure. 
 
2.1.   The RKES procedure 
 
 
Any new investigation involving human subjects which:- 
 
•     is within the remit of the UEC (see section B1.1 and 1.2 of the Code of Practice); or 
•     involves the NHS; or 
•     has external funding; 
 
must follow the RKES procedure. Only one of the conditions above has to be present for the RKES 
procedure to apply. 
 
Upon receipt of an ethics application form, the UEC Secretariat in RKES will assess the investigation for 
sponsorship and risk management and will confirm University sponsorship on behalf of the University unless 
there are concerns related to sponsorship and/or management risk. If there are concerns (i.e. the human 
investigation is categorised as medium/high risk in terms of risk) RKES will discuss same with the Senior 
Officer with responsibility for the UEC. A decision will then be made by RKES and the Senior Officer.  
 
 
2.2.   The Head of Department procedure 
 
 
Where an investigation:- 
 
•     is not within the remit of the UEC; and 
•     does not involve the NHS; and 
•     does not have external funding; 
 
the appropriate ethics application form should be submitted by the Chief Investigator to his/her Head of 
Department. Where the Chief Investigator is the Head of Department the form should be submitted to the 
appropriate Dean or Deputy Head of Department.

--- PAGE 31 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
31  
 
 
 
 
SECTION C: Management Approval/ 
Sponsorship Procedures 
 
 
The Head of Department should consider whether the University is an appropriate sponsor for the 
investigation and the management risk issues, if any, arising from the investigation.  If the Head of 
Department decides the University is an appropriate sponsor and the project poses low/no management risk 
issues, the sponsorship section of the UEC form should be signed and dated by the Head of Department. 
 
If the Head of Department is any doubt about the implications of sponsorship or the assessment of 
management risk issues s/he should contact RKES. 
 
No investigation involving human subjects should begin until sponsorship and ethical approval have been 
confirmed. 
 
3. Investigations where the University is not being asked to be 
the sponsor 
 
 
If the University is not being asked to sponsor the investigation but there are management risk issues 
associated with the investigation, the paperwork will be reviewed by RKES. A decision as to whether the 
management risk issues are acceptable to the University will be made. 
 
For investigations that involve the NHS an IRAS form must be completed and submitted online. An 
investigation submitted through IRAS will be considered by the appropriate ethics committee and also by the 
appropriate NHS Research & Development (R&D) Office. The R&D office will consider the sponsorship and 
risk management issues associated with the investigation even if the University or some other organisation is 
sponsoring the investigation. 
 
4.      Insurance 
 
 
Annex 4 provides useful guidance on insurance issues associated with investigations involving human 
subjects both from a University and an NHS perspective. 
 
Applications to DECs/SECs automatically have insurance cover from the Universit y.

--- PAGE 32 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
32  
 
 
 
 
SECTION D: Record Keeping, 
Monitoring and Reporting 
 
 
1.      Data protection 
 
 
The Data Protection Act 1998 concerns the processing of personal data. ‘Personal data’ is any data which 
relates to a living individual who can be identified from that data or from that data and other information which 
is in the possession of, or is likely to come into the possession of, the data controller. ‘Sensitive personal data’ 
is information that relates to race/ethnic origin, political opinions, religious beliefs, trade union membership, 
health (mental or physical) or details of criminal offences. Under the legislation this category of information 
must be handled with a higher degree of protection at all times. ‘Processing’ covers anything you do with 
personal data from collection or receipt right through to disposal or destruction and all the stages in between 
e.g. copying, release, storage etc. 
 
1.1    Use of personal data in research 
 
 
It is recognised that some research requires the processing and/or storage of personal and/or sensitive 
personal data relating to living individuals. The use of any personal data is governed by the Data Protection 
Act 1998 (DPA). If your research involves the processing of personal data you must comply with the Act and 
the University’s current Data Protection Policy. The University’s policy and supporting guidance for staff is 
available from www.strath.ac.uk/dataprotection. 
 
It should be noted that the University’s Data Protection Policy and guidance are there to assist staff. However, 
they will not provide in-depth detail regarding every eventuality relating to data protection in research projects. 
Therefore, if you are unsure about any aspect regarding data protection you should discuss this with the Chief 
Investigator or the Information Governance Unit (dataprotection@strath.ac.uk). You should consider the data 
protection implications at the outset of your research project and build appropriate processes/safeguards 
into the project as required. Please note that if you fully anonymise data so that no living individual can be 
identified from it/related to it then it is no longer considered ‘personal data’ under the Act and there will be no 
data protection implications. 
 
1.2    Data protection principles 
 
 
The University must comply with the eight data protection principles as set out in the Act. In summary these 
state that personal data shall: 
 
•     be obtained and processed fairly and lawfully and shall not be processed unless certain conditions are 
met, 
•     be obtained for a specified and lawful purpose and shall not be processed in any manner incompatible with  
that purpose, 
•     be adequate, relevant and not excessive for that purpose, 
•     be accurate and kept up to date, 
•     not be kept for longer than is necessary for that purpose, 
•     be processed in accordance with the data subject’s rights, 
•     be kept safe from unauthorised access, accidental loss or destruction, and  
•     not be transferred to a country outside the European Economic Area, unless that country has equivalent 
levels of protection for personal data. 
 
In order to ensure that you comply with these principles you should have a clear plan for how you will process 
personal data i.e. how will you gather, use, store, retain and destroy this information?

--- PAGE 33 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
33  
 
 
 
 
SECTION D: Record Keeping, 
Monitoring and Reporting 
 
 
1.3    Research data exemption 
 
 
Under Section 33 of the Data Protection Act 1998 personal data may be exempt from some of the data 
protection principles as long as the research activity fulfils certain conditions. To be exempt from some of the 
data protection principles the research activity must fulfil all of the following conditions:  
 
•     The personal data is being used exclusively for research purposes (includes statistical or historical research 
purposes). The personal data must have no other use, not even incidental use;  
•     The  personal  data  is  not  being  used  to  support  measures  or  decisions  relating  to  any  identifiable  living  
individual (not just the data subject but anyone who may be affected by your research); 
•     The personal data is not being used in a way that will cause, or is likely to cause, substantial damage or 
substantial distress to any data subject; and 
•     The results of the research activity, or any resulting statistics, must not be available in a form that identifies  
the data subjects. 
 
If the research activity cannot fulfil all of the conditions set out above then the exemption cannot apply.  
 
If  the  research  activity  does  fulfil  the  conditions  set  out  above  then  the  personal  data  may  be  used  in  the  
following ways: 
 
 
1.3.1 May be used for a new purpose 
 
Under the second data protection principle, personal data shall be obtained only for one or more specified and 
lawful purposes, and shall not be further processed in any manner incompatible with that purpose or purposes. 
However, if the research activity fulfils the conditions above then the second part of this principle does not 
apply. The personal data can then be processed for another purpose. 
 
1.3.2 May keep the personal data for a research purpose 
 
The fifth data protection principle says that personal data processed for any purpose or purposes shall not be  
kept for longer than is necessary for that purpose or purposes. 
 
However, if the research activity fulfils the conditions above then this does not apply and personal data can be  
retained for longer than is necessary for that purpose.  If required the data can be retained indefinitel y. 
 
1.3.4 Need not provide personal data under the subject right of access. 
 
The sixth data protection principle requires that personal data shall be processed in accordance with the rights 
of data subjects set out in Section 7 of the Act. 
 
One of the rights of individuals is the right of access to their own personal data. Personal data that forms part 
of a programme of research may be exempt from this right provided that the research activity has met all the 
conditions for the Research Exemption. 
 
This only applies if: 
 
•     The personal data is processed in compliance with the relevant conditions.  
•     The results of research or resulting statistics are not made available in a form which identifies data subjects.  
 
However, it should be noted that it still good practice to inform participants at the outset if there is an intention 
to use their personal data again and how long it will be held for (if this is known at the time). If it is clear that 
personal data will never be of any further use then it is appropriate to destroy it after a set period of time.

--- PAGE 34 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
34  
 
 
 
 
SECTION D: Record Keeping, 
Monitoring and Reporting 
 
 
If participants were specifically told that data would be destroyed after a certain period of time then this should 
be adhered to unless it is possible to go back to the participants and ask for their permission to retain the data 
for longer. 
 
2.      Data management and record-keeping 
 
 
It is essential that all University records are managed appropriatel y, including those related to research. 
Records may be held in many formats i.e. databases, hard copy, Microsoft Office documents etc. The 
theories of good data and records management apply irrespective of the format or medium in which that 
information is held. You should consider the format/medium when planning how you will handle data. Please 
note that the Information Governance Unit has created a number of records management guidance notes to 
assist staff with managing records 
(www.strath.ac.uk/is/compliance/recordsmanagement/#d.en.611686). 
 
2.1    Data planning 
 
 
It is good practice to create a data plan at the outset of any research project, whether externally-funded or not. 
It is likely that data planning will be built into the funding application process. Most funders provide policies and 
guidance on managing your data, which should be available to you via the funde r’s website, or by contacting 
the funder directly. The basic points that a data plan should address are data management, access and 
preservation. 
 
For projects that include personal and/or sensitive personal data it is even more important to consider how 
these datasets will be managed at the outset of the project. These arrangements may be reviewed during the 
research or upon completion. 
 
 
2.2    Data management responsibilities 
 
 
The CI is responsible for ensuring that all data, including any personal data, gathered in the course of a 
programme of research is managed appropriately. The CI should ensure that he/she is aware of the University’s 
Data Protection Policy and any relevant guidance for staff that may be relevant in relation to his/her research 
and the management of data (www.strath.ac.uk/dataprotection/dppoliciesandguidance). 
 
2.3    Data security 
 
 
It is essential that all data is managed with appropriate security. This is true irrespective of the media on which 
the data is stored i.e. hard copy or electronic. In the case of personal data the seventh data protection principle 
states that personal data shall be kept safe from unauthorised access, accidental loss or destruction. 
 
Keeping data secure involves both operational and technical measures. All staff involved in research projects 
should be aware of any project-specific measures, as well as University policies and procedures in relation to 
data/IT security. 
 
As a minimum staff should be aware of the following: 
 
•     Access to information should be suitably secure and restricted to only staff who require access e.g. hard 
copy records should be held securely in lockable cabinets, electronic records should be on secure drives. 
•     Electronic data should never be stored on desktops or C drives. These are not backed up to the University 
network and are therefore considered insecure.

--- PAGE 35 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
35  
 
 
 
 
SECTION D: Record Keeping, 
Monitoring and Reporting 
 
 
•     The use of portable electronic storage devices should be avoided, unless absolutely necessary. The 
possibility of remotely accessing data held on secure University servers should be considered. If you must 
take data off-site consider if you can render any personal data anonymous first. This means ensuring that 
no individual can be identified from that data.   
•     If portable devices must be used for confidential information and/or personal data then they must be 
encrypted. This is considered by the Information Commissioner (who enforces Data Protection) to be the 
minimum level of security which should to be applied to personal data held on portable media.  
 
Information Services should be contacted for additional information regarding encryption and other security 
measures related to electronic data. The University’s encryption policy should be followed by all researchers 
(www.strath.ac.uk/it/security/encryption). 
 
 
Records Management Guidance notes produced by the Information Governance Unit are available on this 
topic, including: 
 
•     information security 
•     determining if information is confidential 
•     storing records. 
 
2.4    Sharing data 
 
 
If you are working on a project in collaboration with another institution/organisation then you should ensure that 
a suitable agreement is in place regarding data sharing. This is of particular concern where personal data is 
involved. A suitable agreement should be in place which will outline the roles and responsibilities of both sides. 
This may also address potential issues in relation to Intellectual Property Rights. In addition, where personal 
data is involved, an appropriate agreement will include a data sharing agreement which will clearly define the 
roles of data controller and data processor. Advice should be sought from RKES. 
 
2.5    Retention of data 
 
 
As stated above, it is good practice to inform participants how long their personal data will be retained at the 
outset, if know. Many funding councils will set periods for which research data must be retained. These will 
usually be stipulated at the outset. You must ensure that you have a plan as to how and where data where will 
be stored and how long for. In the case of clinical trials or investigations involving the NHS where the University 
is acting as sponsor or co-sponsor, or where no-fault insurance cover has been arranged, arrangements 
must be made for long-term retention of all relevant information. This will include retaining a copy of the 
original application (together with any approved amendments), copies of the signed consent form for each 
individual who participated in the investigation, copies of the signed conditions of compensation forms for each 
participant where appropriate (see Annex 4 on Insurance) and any other relevant documentation. 
 
 
The fifth data protection principle states that personal data should not be retained for longer than is necessary 
(in relation to the purpose for which it was collected). Again, there may be requirements by funders in relation 
to how long any personal data must be retained. You should check with the relevant funding body. 
 
If no external funding requirements are involved then you should consider how long data must be retained for 
legal, statutory or organisational requirements. 
 
N.B. Personal data does not need to be retained in line with the fifth data protection principle if it meets the 
criteria of the research exemption under S33 of the Act. See Section 1.3 Research Data Exemption above for 
more information.

--- PAGE 36 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
36  
 
 
 
 
SECTION D: Record Keeping, 
Monitoring and Reporting 
 
 
2.6    Disposal of data 
 
 
When data no longer requires to be kept then you must dispose of it appropriately. Confidential waste, including 
any personal data, must be disposed of securely. This may require: 
 
•     confidential shredding of hard copy material 
•     permanent deletion of electronic data 
•     suitable disposal of IT storage devices i.e. CD Roms/hard drives etc. 
 
Information Services can provide more information related to removing or deleting electronic data. Estates 
Services can provide more information on recycling and waste management ( www.strath.ac.uk/estates/ 
recycling) 
 
 
 
2.7    University Ethics Committee records 
 
 
All records relating to the ethics committee are maintained by the relevant department (at the time of writing 
this is RKES). These records will be retained for an appropriate time as required by the University to meet its 
statutory, regulatory or administrative requirements. 
 
 
 
2.8    Departmental Ethics Committee records and monitoring 
 
 
DECs are required to report to the UEC on an annual basis.   This report will include information on all 
investigations that the DEC has considered throughout the year, including student investigations, together 
with information on whether or not the investigations were approved.   DECs should also keep records of 
meetings, decisions, amendments to applications and investigations, and copies of correspondence relating 
to all applications that are considered. 
 
 
3. Monitoring 
 
 
3.1    Monitoring of investigations approved by the University 
Ethics Committee 
 
 
The UEC will monitor all proposals submitted for ethical approval. This will normally be conducted on an 
annual basis using the UEC Monitoring Report Form. 
 
At the conclusion of the investigation for which ethical approval has been granted, the CI will report back to 
the UEC on the outcome of the investigation with an account of anything which may have occurred within 
the investigation that may prompt ethical questions for any similar future investigation and with anything else 
that they feel the UEC should know.

--- PAGE 37 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
37  
 
 
 
 
SECTION D: Record Keeping, 
Monitoring and Reporting 
 
 
3.2    Monitoring of generic framework Investigations 
 
 
The DEC/SEC will be responsible for monitoring all the work undertaken as part of any generic framework, 
approved by either the UEC or the DEC/SEC, and will report back to the UEC in its annual monitoring 
report (see above). This report will either confirm that all work undertaken falls within the parameters of the 
generic framework as approved, or will indicate where any changes have been made. It will also identify if any 
unexpected events occurred during the study.

--- PAGE 38 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
1.      Glossary 
 
 
2.      Key responsibilities of the Sponsor 
 
 
3.      Key responsibilities of the Chief Investigator 
 
 
4.      Insurance 
 
 
5.      Note on the law governing research involving human tissue 
 
 
6.      Research in relation to deceased persons 
 
 
7.      Definition of medical devices

--- PAGE 39 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
39  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1 GLOSSARY 
 
Adverse event – any problems that might arise during an investigation. The Chief Investigator must report 
any untoward event to the ethics committee and the investigation may have to be stopped. Further information 
is contained in Section B12. 
 
Consent – when participants agree to take part in the investigation. This is explained in more detail in Section 
B4 under 4.3.8. 
 
Chief Investigator – the lead investigator who has overall responsibility for the investigation. A full description 
of the role and responsibilities of the Chief Investigator is given in Annex 3. 
 
Clinical trial – the University has adopted the definition used by the Medicines for Human Use (Clinical 
Trials) Regulations 2004 which define a clinical trial as ‘any investigation in human subjects, other than a 
non-interventional trial, intended: 
 
a.   to discover or verify the clinical, pharmacological or other pharmacodynamic effects of one or 
more medicinal products, 
b.   to identify any adverse reactions to one or more such products, or 
c.   to study absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of one or more such products, 
with the object of ascertaining the safety or efficacy of those products.’ 
 
In order to assist investigators determine whether or not their investigation is a clinical trial the MHRA has 
produced an algorithm – this is available at the following web site: 
www.mhra.gov.uk/home/idcplg?IdcService=SS_GET_PAGE&nodeId=723 
 
Separate insurance arrangements may need to be put in place for clinical trials – further information is 
contained in Annex 5. 
 
Generic approval – approval for a number of investigations that fall within an agreed framework (e.g. student 
projects),  or  approval  to  run  an  investigation  using  the  same  procedures  on  a  number  of occasions. 
A full description of generic approval is given in Section B3. 
 
Investigation – a study to explore particular conditions, behaviours, opinions or reactions to particular stimuli, 
in order to gain more information 
 
IRAS - Integrated Research Application System (replaces NRES online application form). 
 
MHRA – Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency 
Monitoring –the UEC and the DEC/SECs will undertake regular monitoring of all the protocols that they 
approve, to ensure that the protocol has been adhered to and to identify any issues that might have arisen. 
Additionally the UEC will seek an annual report from the DEC/SEC’s on their activities. 
 
Participant - a person is considered to be a participant in an investigation if they are contributing data into 
that investigation either actively (for example through taking part in a survey or undertaking particular tasks) 
or passively (for example through being the subject of observation). 
 
Principal Investigator – where an investigation is conducted on more than one site a Principal Investigator 
will be identified for each site. The Principal Investigator will be the lead researcher at that site. 
 
Protocol – a description of the investigation to be undertaken including the investigators involved, where the 
investigation will take place and under what conditions, the methods and procedures to be used, the number 
of participants being sought, the inclusion/exclusion criteria to be applied, and the likely duration of the 
investigation.

--- PAGE 40 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
40  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
Sponsor – the individual, institution, company or organisation that takes responsibility for securing the 
arrangements to initiate, manage and finance the investigation, including ensuring that all necessary 
approvals are in place. A full description of the role and responsibilities of the sponsor is given in Annex 3. 
 
SUSAR – suspected unexpected serious adverse reaction. Where a SUSAR occurs in any clinical trial where 
the University is the sponsor these must be reported to the ethics committee which is required to report to the 
MHRA within specified time limits. For clinical trials where the University is not the sponsor the timescales 
will be the same but investigators must follow the correct reporting procedures. Sponsors are required under 
law to provide an annual list of all suspected SUSAR’s in relation to each product being tested. Further 
information is available at Section B12.

--- PAGE 41 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
41  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
ANNEX 2 KEY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SPONSOR 
 
 
The sponsor is the individual, institution, company or organisation that takes on the ultimate responsibility for 
the initiation and management (or arranging the initiation or management) of, and the financing (or arranging 
the financing) for, the investigation. The sponsor is responsible for all aspects of the investigation and for 
seeking all appropriate approvals, ensuring that the research protocol has passed scientific/peer quality 
assurance, and ensuring that arrangements are in place for good practice in conducting the investigation, for 
monitoring the progress of the investigation and for reporting the outcomes. The key responsibilities of the 
sponsor are: 
 
•     The research proposal respects the dignity, rights, safety and well-being of participants and the relationship 
with care professionals; 
•     An appropriate process of independent expert review has demonstrated that the research proposal is 
worthwhile, of high scientific quality and good value for money; 
•     An appropriate ethics committee has given a favourable opinion; 
•     In the case of a clinical trial involving a medicine, someone acting on behalf of the sponsor obtains a 
clinical trial authorisation and the arrangements for the trial comply with the law; 
•     Appropriate arrangements are in place for the registration of a trial; 
•     The chief investigator, and other key researchers, including those at collaborating sites, have the necessary 
expertise and experience and have access to the resources needed to conduct the proposed research 
successfully; 
•     The arrangements and resources proposed will allow the collection of high quality, accurate data and 
the systems and resources proposed are those required to allow appropriate data analysis and data  
protection; 
•     Arrangements proposed for the work are consistent with this research governance framework;  
•     Organisations and individuals involved in the research agree the division of responsibilities between them; 
•     There is written agreement about the arrangements for the management and monitoring of the study; 
•     Arrangements are in place for the sponsor and other stakeholder organisations to be alerted if significant 
developments occur as the study progresses, whether in relation to the safety of individuals or to scientific 
direction; 
•     Agreement has been reached about compensation in the event of harm to research participants and if 
any organisation, or the sponsor itself, offers compensation without proof of negligence, it has made the 
necessary financial arrangements; 
•     There are arrangements for the conclusion of the study including appropriate plans for disseminating the 
findings; 
•     Scientific judgements made by the sponsor in relation to these responsibilities should be based on  
independent and expert advice; 
•     The sponsor is expected to assist any enquiry, audit or investigation related to the funded work.

--- PAGE 42 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
42  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
ANNEX 3 KEY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CHIEF INVESTIGATOR 
 
 
The Chief Investigator is the lead investigator for the investigation and is responsible for the following: 
 
•     The research team gives priority at all times to the dignity, rights, safety and well-being of participants; 
•     The study complies with all legal and ethical requirements; 
•     The research is carried out to the standards in this research governance framework;  
•     Controlled trials are registered and for clinical trials involving medicines, the research follows any conditions 
imposed by the licensing authority; 
•    The Chief Executive of the organisation(s) involved and/or any other individual(s) with responsibilities 
within this framework are informed that the study is planned, and their permission is obtained before the 
research starts; 
•     When a study involves participants under the care of a doctor, nurse or other worker for the condition to 
which the study relates, those care professionals are informed that their patients or users are being invited 
to participate and agree to retain overall responsibility for their care; 
•     When the research involves a service user or carer or a child, looked after or receiving services under 
the auspices of the local authority, the agency director or their deputy or other appropriate person (e.g. 
social worker) agrees to the person (and/or their carer) being invited to participate and is fully aware of the 
arrangements for dealing with any disclosures or other relevant information;  
•     Potential participants and other service users and carers are involved in the design and management of 
the study whenever appropriate; 
•     The study is submitted for ethics review and it does not start without a favourable opinion, and the research 
team acts on any conditions attached to the ethics opinion; 
•     Unless participants or the ethics opinion says otherwise, participants’ care professionals are given any 
information directly relevant to their care that arises in the research; 
•     Each member of the research team, including those at collaborating sites, is qualified by education, training  
and experience to discharge his/her role in the study and their qualifications are documented;  
•     Each investigator in a clinical trial involving medicines is aware of his/her legal duties;  
•     Students and new researchers have adequate supervision, support and training; 
•     Unless urgent safety measures are necessary, the research follows the protocol or proposal agreed by the 
relevant ethics committee and by the sponsor; 
•     Substantive changes to the protocol or proposal are submitted for ethical review and for the sponsor’s 
agreement. These amendments are implemented only when approved; 
•     Procedures are kept in place to ensure collection of high quality, accurate data and the integrity and 
confidentiality of data during processing and storage; 
•     Arrangements are made for the appropriate archiving of data when the research has finished and to make  
it accessible; 
•    Reports on the progress and outcomes of the work required by the sponsor, funders, or others with a 
legitimate interest are produced on time and to an acceptable standard;  
•     The findings from the work are opened to critical review through the accepted scientific and professional  
channels; 
•     Once  established,  findings  from  the  work  are  disseminated  promptly  and  fed  back  as  appropriate  to  
participants; 
•     The chief investigator accepts a key role in detecting and preventing scientific misconduct by adopting the  
role of guarantor on published outputs; 
•     Arrangements  are  kept  in  place  for  the  management  of  financial  and  other  resources  provided  for  the  
study, including for the management of any intellectual property arising;  
•     All data and documentation associated with the study are available at the request of the inspection and 
auditing authorities. 
Please note:  
• Ensuring that final revisions have been communicated to UEC within one year of initial review by UEC 
of the application for ethical approval.  Failure to do so will mean that a new application must be 
submitted.  
• If an investigator leaves the University then agreement must be reached on who is responsible 
for the files, notes and records relating to the investigation - normally this is the sponsor.

--- PAGE 43 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
43  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
ANNEX 4 INSURANCE 
 
1.      Outline of Insurance Policies 
 
 
The University maintains a range of insurance policies including - 
 
•     Employer’s Liability - which indemnifies the University against its liability for accidental injury to its  
employees suffered during the course of their duties 
•     Public Liability - which indemnifies the University against its liability for accidental injury to persons and  
for accidental damage to the property of others 
•     Products Liability 
•     Professional Indemnity 
•     Clinical Trials - under which no-fault cover is available. 
 
Applications to the UEC should be accompanied by a completed insurance questionnaire. The information 
provided in the insurance cover questionnaire will allow UEC to either confirm insurance cover or refer the 
application to Finance for further checks. In cases where ethical approval is required from a collaborating 
university or the NHS, but not the University, confirmation of insurance cover will also be sought. It must be 
made clear at the time of submission if the University is acting as Sponsor or Co-Sponsor for the research 
proposed. Ethical and management approval is only given when appropriate insurance cover is in place. 
 
The purpose of the University’s insurance policies is to indemnify the University of Strathclyde (including 
its staff, students, and ethics committee members, while working under the control of the University and on 
University business), and not external investigators/organisations. 
 
2.      Liability vs no fault insurance 
 
 
The University holds two types of insurance to cover claims arising as a result of its involvement in research 
involving human subjects / clinical trials: 
 
2.1    Legal liability cover 
 
 
Legal liability cover is available under but the Public Liability policy and the Clinical  Trials policy. 
 
Legal liability policies provide cover for loss/harm to individuals resulting from their participation in a research 
study or clinical trial where the University has been proven to be legally liable for that loss/harm. These 
policies place a burden of proof upon the claimant to prove the University’s liability for their loss. 
 
2.2    No fault cover 
 
 
No fault cover is provided by the University’s Clinical Trials Policy. 
 
No fault insurance is intended to provide compensation to clinical trial research subjects in the event of their 
suffering a significant harm/loss which, on balance of probabilities, is directly attributable to their involvement 
in the trial. There is no requirement for the claimant to prove negligence on the part of the Universit y. 
 
For example, a research subject may experience an unexpected adverse reaction which was not caused by 
negligence. Under a legal liability policy no cover would apply but a no fault policy will provide compensation 
in this instance. 
 
The insurance cover appropriate for most University investigations will be Legal Liability cover.

--- PAGE 44 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
44  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
3.      Conditions of cover and exclusions 
 
Insurance cover may be invalidated if the conditions of cover are not complied with:  
 
•    Studies must not commence until ethical approval (as required by this Code or by other legislation/ 
guidelines) has been obtained or, where ethical approval is required for a proposed amendment, until 
approval of the amendment is obtained. 
•     All material facts must be disclosed to insurers. 
•     The University must take reasonable precautions to prevent any event which may give rise to a claim.  
•     All legislation, regulations and guidelines (including this Code and the decisions of University ethics 
committees) relevant to a particular investigation should be followed. 
•     Insurers must be notified of claims, or of circumstances which have the potential to lead to a claim, as soon 
as possible. A delay in notification could result in the absence of cover. 
 
Not all legal liabilities are covered by the University’s policies. Exclusions under the Public Liability policy 
include: 
 
•     liability arising from use of aircraft/aerial/aeorspatial devices 
•     liability arising from water borne craft 
•     liability arising from ionising radiation/nuclear components 
•     fines and penalties 
•     legal liabilities assumed by the University under contract/agreement which would not otherwise have 
attached. 
 
Exclusions under the Clinical Trials policy include, but are not limited to: 
 
•     clinical trials outside the UK 
•     research subjects known to be pregnant at the time of the trial 
•     research subjects under 5 years of age 
•     trials with the purpose of assisting with or altering the process of conception 
•     investigating or participation in methods of contraception 
•     trials involving genetic engineering (other than a Clinical Trial in which Medicinal Purpose is treating, 
preventing and diagnosing disease) 
•     trials where the substance under investigation has been designed, altered or manufactured by the 
University 
•     fines and penalties 
•     legal liabilities assumed by the University under contract/agreement which would not otherwise have 
attached. 
 
Where an activity is normally excluded it may be possible to arrange an extension to the policy on provision of 
additional information and/or an additional premium. 
 
All investigations taking place overseas must be referred to UEC for confirmation of insurance cover. 
 
Many contracts may require that the University waive rights of recovery and/or hold harmless the other 
party to the agreement. It should be noted that if this is done without the express approval of insurers, the 
policies claims conditions will have been breached and insurers may avoid the claim. Such agreements must 
therefore be referred to the University’s Insurance Adviser prior to the commencement of the investigation. 
 
Further  details  on  policy  conditions  and  exclusions  can  be  obtained  from  the  University’s  Insurance 
Adviser as required.

--- PAGE 45 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
45  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
4.      Clinical trials insurance cover 
 
The University holds a Clinical Trials policy (limit of indemnity £30M any one event and in the aggregate) which 
provides cover for losses arising from Clinical Trials except those specifically excluded.  
 
Insurers define a Clinical Trial as “an investigation or a series of investigations conducted on any person for a 
Medicinal Purpose” where Medicinal Purpose is defined as: 
 
•     treating or preventing disease 
•     diagnosing disease or ascertaining the existence, degree of, or extent of, a physiological condition  
•     assisting with, or altering in any way, the process of conception or investigating or participating in methods 
of conception or contraception 
•     inducing anaesthesia 
•     otherwise preventing or interfering with the normal operation of a physiological function.  
 
The policy has a number of policy conditions and exclusions as outlined in Section 3 on Conditions of Cover 
and Exclusions. 
 
The Clinical Trials policy provides both legal liability and no fault cover.  In most instances legal liability cover 
will be the most appropriate cover for University activities. The decision whether or not to offer No Fault cover 
for a particular investigation rests with the UEC. Investigators should therefore not state in their applications 
that no-fault compensation cover is in place if this is not in fact the case. 
 
There is no legal requirement for no-fault compensation to be offered for investigations involving human 
participants in the UK. Some organisations (e.g. NHS bodies) will not be in a position to o ffer no-fault 
compensation. 
 
No Fault cover is most likely to be considered where: 
 
•     the investigation is a clinical trial and involves potential harm to participants  
•     the investigation is a clinical trial and there is potential for damage to the University ’s standing. 
 
Depending on the number and nature of investigations for which no-fault cover is requested, additional premium 
may be due. A claim by participants will only be covered if there is a valid policy at the time of the claim and the 
claim is notified during the policy period. 
 
5. Claims and potential claims 
 
 
Any claim for compensation, or specific event which has the potential to give rise to a claim, must be reported 
to the University’s Insurance Adviser in Finance as soon as possible, in order that it can be notified to the 
Insurers as a claim/potential claim. 
 
6. Individual members’ liability 
 
 
In addition to the policies outlined at Section 1 above, the University has in place Directors and Officers Liability 
cover. This specifically provides cover for all directors and officers of the University and its subsidiaries. This 
includes all members (staff and lay members) of the UEC and the DEC/SECs. This provides cover for any 
‘wrongful act’, i.e. any error, misstatement, act, omission, neglect or breach of duty committed, attempted or 
allegedly committed or attempted by an insured person acting in this capacity. It will provide for the amount 
which the insured is legally and personally liable to pay in respect of claims including defence  costs, legal 
representation expenses and awards of damages.

--- PAGE 46 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
46  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
ANNEX 5 NOTE ON THE LAW GOVERNING RESEARCH INVOLVING 
HUMAN TISSUE 
 
 
Human tissue taken from a living person 
 
This note is confined to the law in Scotland, relating to research involving human tissue taken from a living 
person.   It is understood that no research that is likely to come before the Committee is carried out on 
human tissue taken from dead bodies. (A different set of rules under Human Tissue (Scotland) Act 2006 
applies to such research). 
 
Scotland compared with England and Wales. 
 
The law applicable to the question in Scotland is 
a.   Scots common law as it applies to determine who owns material taken from a living body 
b.   A small number of the provisions in the Human Tissue Act 2004, essentially for our purpose Section 
45 with Schedule 4, which creates a criminal offence if material is taken for DNA analysis in certain 
circumstances 
 
In England, by contrast, almost all the law is contained in the whole of the Human Tissue Act 2004. That 
contains inter alia elaborate provisions regulating consent. 
 
What counts as material from a living body, research on which is governed by the law in 
Scotland? 
 
Except for the purpose of the criminal offence relating to material taken for DNA analysis there is no statutory 
definition applicable to material taken from a living person in Scotland. 
 
It must be assumed that any material generated by and then separated from a living person’s body has to be 
considered. The exception in the English statutory law, excluding “hair and nail” (Human Tissue Act 
2004 section 53) does not apply in Scots (common) law. There is also no rule excluding very small quantities 
in Scotland. 
 
Who owns it? 
 
Probably (see Niall Whitty, SME, sv Medical Law para 340) at the moment it is separated from the body, 
the person from whose body it has come. Though there is no other authority on the matter in Scots law, I 
consider that should the question ever required to be determined by a court, it would take this view, following 
the approach in a number of other jurisdictions. 
 
That person can donate it to another – e.g. to the investigator, the institution employing the investigator and 
so on. (Some material cannot legally be sold) 
 
The relation of “Donation” to “Consent” to use 
 
Once something is donated the person from whom it comes no longer has a right or interest in what is then 
done with it. A possible exception may be where something is done that would affect that person’s dignity, 
which is highly unlikely in the context of research. 
 
The question is therefore correctly one of donation rather than consent to use. However, if a person insisted 
on not donating the material, then the question would arise as to consent to use. In such a situation, 
which is unlikely, it would be appropriate to follow the guidelines in the English legislation, not as law, but as 
appropriate ethical rules.

--- PAGE 47 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
47  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
How is donation achieved? 
 
It is probably implied in the research context. But for the avoidance of doubt it should be specifically stated in 
the consent form. 
 
Material for DNA analysis – New Statutory Criminal Offence 
 
 
Section 45 (with Schedule 4) of the Human Tissue Act 2004 makes it a criminal offence in Scotland (as well as 
in England Wales and Northern Ireland) to have “bodily material” for DNA analysis in certain circumstances. 
The offence can be committed by the institution as well as an individual (see Section 49). 
 
There are four conditions all of which are required for the offence to be committed (Section 45(1): 
 
•    There is “bodily  material” (defined as material “from a human body [alive or dead] that “consists of or  
includes human cells”) 
•     A person [which can be an institution such as a university] has it 
•     That person intends that DNA in it be analysed and intends that the results of that analysis be used, 
other than for medical diagnosis or treatment of the person from whom it comes, criminal justice and 
such things (Schedule 4 Part 2), or for certain sorts of medical research where the person from whom 
it has come cannot be traced (once Regulations have been made for this; the Court of Session, when that 
happens/if it happens is the supervisory body in Scotland). 
•     There is no “consent” (as defined in the legislation) from the person from whom it has come (or from 
the relevant other party as defined in the legislation where the person is a “child” or has cognitive 
impairment.

--- PAGE 48 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings  | Eighth Edition 
Edition 
48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
ANNEX 6 RESEARCH IN RELATION TO DECEASED PERSONS 
 
 
1.      Practical issues 
 
 
The University of Strathclyde does not have a Medical School or Anatomy Department and does not routinely 
receive bodies donated for medical research. However the University is licensed under the Anatomy Act 
through its department of Biomedical Engineering and can examine and store cadaveric tissue at this facilit y. 
Alternatively cadaveric samples can be obtained through collaboration with such departmen ts (e.g. the 
Anatomy Department of Glasgow University) or via importation from an appropriate source. According to the 
Anatomy Act, only licensed individuals may import tissue, and therefore the only source of tissue for non- 
licensed departments and individuals is through collaboration. 
 
If you wish to work with cadaveric tissue for the purpose of transplantation studies, then a separate licence 
must be obtained from the Human Tissue Authority (see 
www.hta.gov.uk/licensingandinspections/licenceapplicationstep-by-stepguide.cfm). 
 
 
 
2.      Ethical issues 
 
 
All research involving cadaveric tissue should be reviewed by the UEC unless devolved to a DEC/SEC. The 
overwhelming ethical issue regarding the use of cadaveric human tissue concerns consent: whether the 
intended use is compatible with the written consent given by the donor prior to death; that the tissue is treated 
respectfully during the research programme and that the tissue is disposed of in accordance with the wishes 
of the deceased. A secondary ethical issue is one of health and safety of the staff and students performing the 
research. 
 
Ethics applications must demonstrate that the intended research is appropriate based on the donor consent, 
and that training associated with the manual handling of the tissue is more than adequate to ensure researcher 
safety. 
 
 
 
3.      Research using tissue obtained from living donors 
 
 
Such tissues are obtained via regulated tissue banks, which have generic NHS (the UK ones do) approval 
for research purposes. After their committee reviews an application for tissue, and approves it, they release 
anonymous tissue on that basis. Such research must still gain ethical approval at the University of Strathclyde. 
However, tissue obtained from a NHS tissue bank will be assumed to have been ethically obtained and 
researchers should include the letter of approval from tissue banks within their application.

--- PAGE 49 ---

Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings | Eighth  Edition 48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION E: ANNEXES 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 7 DEFINITION OF MEDICAL DEVICES 
 
 
Council Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 concerning medical devices 
 
For the purposes of the Medical Devices Directive, the following definitions shall apply: 
 
A ‘medical device’ means any instrument, apparatus, appliance, software, material or other article, whether 
used alone or in combination, including the software intended by its manufacturer to be used specifically for 
diagnostic and/or therapeutic purposes and necessary for its proper application, intended by the manufacturer 
to be used for human beings for the purpose of: 
 
•     diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease 
•     diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of or compensation for an injury or handicap 
•     investigation, replacement or modification of the anatomy or of a physiological process 
•     control of conception 
 
and which does not achieve its principal intended action in or on the human body by pharmacological, 
immunological or metabolic means, but which may be assisted in its function by such means.

--- PAGE 50 ---