--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
 
     
 
POLICY AND CODE OF 
PRACTICE ON 
COLLABORATIVE 
EDUCATION PROVISION 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.2 Policy and Code of Practice 
on Collaborative Education 
Provision 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate 
November 2015 
November 2015 
1.3 Minor revisions for currency; 
updates to clauses 23 
(Library Archives); 25-28 
(MoUs); addition of reference 
to TNE (Annex 1); removal of 
references to Twinning 
Agreements. 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate  
March 2025 
April 2025 
 
 Version 1.3 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number 
SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
CONTENTS 
INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................. 3 
PRINCIPLES UNDERPINNING THE UNIVERSITY’S COLLABORATIVE PROVISION .......... 3 
APPROVAL OF COLLABORATIVE ACTIVITIES ............................................................... 5 
PROCEDURES FOR ESTABLISHING A COLLABORATIVE ACTIVITY .............................. 5 
Collaborative Provision SharePoint Site ........................................................................... 5 
Signing of Collaborative Agreements ................................................................................ 6 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) .............................................................................. 6 
Draft Collaborative Agreement ........................................................................................... 7 
Liaison with Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs) ........................... 8 
Financial Arrangements ...................................................................................................... 8 
Collaborative Agreements .................................................................................................. 8 
Collaborative Agreements Database ............................................................................... 10 
RESPONSIBILITY FOR, AND EQUIVALENCE OF, ACADEMIC STANDARDS .................. 10 
ASSURING ACADEMIC STANDARDS AND THE QUALITY OF PROGRAMMES AND 
AWARDS ...................................................................................................................... 12 
Duration, Modification and Review of Agreements ......................................................... 12 
Termination of Agreements ..............................................................................................  12 
Policy on Serial Agreements ............................................................................................  13 
Assessment Requirements ............................................................................................... 13 
External Examining ........................................................................................................... 13 
Certificates and Transcripts ............................................................................................. 13 
Information for Students ................................................................................................... 14 
Publicity and Marketing .................................................................................................... 14 
Shared Module Arrangements ..........................................................................................  14 
External Research Students ............................................................................................. 15 
Joint Supervision Arrangements ..................................................................................... 15 
International Student Exchanges ..................................................................................... 16 
Dual Degree Awards.......................................................................................................... 17 
ANNEX 1 – POLICY FOR THE AWARDING OF DUAL DEGREES .................................... 18 
ANNEX 2 – WORKFLOW OF COLLABORATIVE AGREEMENT PROCESS ...................... 21 
ANNEX 3 – COLLABORATIVE AGREEMENT SIGNATURES ........................................... 23 
ANNEX 4 - GLOSSARY OF TERMS ................................................................................ 24

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. The Charter of the University permits it to co-operate with other university authorities 
for ‘the conduct of examinations and for such other purposes as the University may 
from time to time determine’. In addition, it permits students to undertake 
programmes of study, examinations and periods of study at other universities or 
places of learning. These permissions have enabled the development of collaborative 
arrangements with appropriate institutions and agencies in the UK and overseas 
where these support the University’s strategic objectives and where there is clear 
educational benefit to the students and the partners concerned.  
 
2. In particular, the University’s links with overseas institutions and overseas students 
enrich the cultural life of staff and students, stimulate teaching and research and 
enhance the international standing of the University. 
 
3. The policy and procedures outlined here align with UK Quality Code for Higher 
Education, Advice and Guidance on Partnerships.  
 
PRINCIPLES UNDERPINNING THE UNIVERSITY’S COLLABORATIVE 
PROVISION 
4. The following principles will be applied to all new collaborative provision: 
a. Full account must be taken of the Policy and Procedures outlined in this Code of 
Practice prior to establishing a collaborative agreement. 
b. Collaborations with institutions in the European Higher Education Area must 
have regard to Part 1 of the 
Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance in 
the European Higher Education Area (2015).   
c. The rationale for all collaborative provision must align with the University’s 
strategy. 
d. Proposals for collaborative education should only be considered in areas which 
are compatible with the Faculty’s academic profile and expertise. 
e. The Faculty must be able to demonstrate how proposals for collaborative 
education align with its strategic and academic plans. 
f. The Faculty must be able to demonstrate how proposed new developments 
complement rather than compete with existing collaborative and other provision. 
g. Any collaboration leading to awards (including joint, dual or double awards
) of 
the University must be academically sound, developed and maintained through 
rigorous quality assurance and enhancement processes. 
h. Any collaborative activity must be sustainable and financially sound. 
i. Risks associated with any collaborative activity must be identified and mitigated 
wherever possible. 
j. The University expects that any institution named in a proposal for collaborative 
activity should:  
i.   be an established educational provider with the legal capacity to enter into 
such an arrangement and, where relevant, award degrees; 
ii. have a mission and ethos which aligns with the University’s vision and 
strategic aims; 
iii. have appropriately qualified staff (academic, administrative, technical); 
iv. have clear academic structures;

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
v. have an appropriate physical infrastructure;  
vi. operate on a sound financial basis. 
 
5. The University expects due diligence to have taken place with regards to the 
proposed collaborative partner’s infrastructure and facilities. This should be 
recorded in the Collaborative Provision Checklist and the Collaborative 
Education Provision Form (CPA Subgroup agreement coversheet). 
 
6. Except where the collaboration relates to the teaching and assessment of a language 
other than English, the University normally requires the language of instruction and 
assessment to be English. If there are sound academic reasons why this is not 
possible, the approval of Senate must be sought for the language of instruction and 
assessment to be a language other than English. Where the language of instruction 
and assessment is not English, arrangements must be put in place for the translation, 
by an independent translator, of a sample of programme materials and examination 
scripts so that these can be appropriately reviewed and monitored by the University 
and the External Examiners. 
 
7. The University requires dissertations to be written in English. Exceptionally, the 
relevant Board of Study may permit submission in a language other than 
English, in which case a translation of the abstract into English must 
accompany the thesis (Academic Regulations
). 
 
8. The University may: 
a. collaborate to offer joint taught programmes leading to an award of the 
University of Strathclyde;  
b. collaborate to offer joint taught programmes leading to an award of the partner 
institution(s); 
c. collaborate to offer master’s-level dual degrees jointly taught and leading to 
individual degree awards of both the University and the partner institution; 
collaborate to offer joint degrees leading to a single qualification awarded jointly 
by both, or all, institutions;  
collaborate to offer double degrees jointly developed to deliver a single 
programme leading to separate qualifications being granted by both, or all, of 
them; 
d. validate taught programmes that complement the University’s portfolio and are 
of an appropriate standard; 
e. enter into appropriate articulation arrangements to facilitate student entry to 
specific degree programmes at the University, usually with advanced standing; 
f. collaborate to jointly supervise a student on a research programme; 
g. collaborate in international student exchanges and study abroad agreements;  
h. enter into contract with institutions and agencies to supply administrative and/or 
academic services to support the University’s off-campus programmes. Such 
contracts may include the use of properly supervised local tutors or counsellors 
to support delivery;  
i. collaborate on research activities or enable staff exchanges. 
 
Note: all of the above are defined more fully in Annex 4: Glossary of Terms.
  
 
9. The University records all collaborative provision on the Collaborative Agreements 
Database.

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
 
10. The University does not enter into franchising arrangements. 
 
APPROVAL OF COLLABORATIVE ACTIVITIES 
11. Senate has oversight and formal responsibility for the approval of all collaborative 
agreements, with the exception of faculty-specific student exchange agreements. 
This Policy and Code of Practice outlines the process and expectations for draft 
agreements; Senate expects faculties to satisfy themselves that these conditions are 
met prior to recommendation for final approval by Senate (following an earlier review 
by Senate Business Committee’s Collaborative Provision Agreement Subgroup). 
 
12. The Collaborative Provision Agreement Subgroup reviews and assesses new 
collaborative agreements leading to an award or joint award of the University, with the 
exceptions outlined above. The Subgroup will report to Senate Business Committee 
and will undertake due diligence of draft agreements to ensure: 
a. strategic alignment with institutional aims and objectives;  
b. p artnerships support the delivery of an outstanding teaching and student 
experience; 
c. a dherence to this policy and code of practice as well as the UK Quality Code for 
Higher Education. 
 
13. The Subgroup aims to provide a cohesive approach to the initiation, approval and 
ongoing monitoring of collaborative provision, integrating strategic and operational 
activity across all faculties and professional services including special fee 
arrangements. 
 
PROCEDURES FOR ESTABLISHING A COLLABORATIVE ACTIVITY 
Collaborative Provision SharePoint Site  
14. All collaborative arrangements should be developed, agreed and managed in 
accordance with this Policy and Code of Practice.  
 
15. The SharePoint site contains useful information and links for international activity 
including collaborations in research, education and knowledge exchange. The site 
provides outline guidance on drawing up collaborative agreements, whether national 
or international. 
 
16. A flow chart is provided on the SharePoint site for each type of educational 
collaboration showing the different stages which must be followed in the development 
of collaborative education. The site also provides links to the Collaborative Provision 
Checklist which must be completed for all new collaborative partnerships,  
collaborative agreement templates and further guidance. For further details regarding 
the maintenance of the Collaborative Agreements Database please refer to  clauses 
47-50. 
 
17. Annex 3 identifies the appropriate signatory for each type of collaborative 
agreement.  
 
18. Any member of staff who is approached by an institution(s) wishing to undertake 
collaborative activity with the University (be that at departmental, faculty or University 
level) must first discuss this with their Head of Department, the Executive Dean and 
the Head of International Development and Recruitment (or equivalent) to ensure the 
proposal will align with the faculty strategy and that the proposed partner is

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
appropriate. Consultation must be undertaken with the faculty representative member 
of CPA Subgroup before proceeding further with negotiating an agreement. 
 
19. The University’s Collaborative Agreements Database must be consulted by the 
initiating department to establish whether the proposed partner is new to the 
University or whether a collaborative agreement already exists. An Outline Case for 
the Proposed Collaboration should be completed to assist with the preliminary 
consideration of a proposed new partner and a checklist is also available for guidance 
on what aspects should be considered. The strategic, academic and business case 
justification for collaboration should be established and information provided (other 
than in the case of existing collaborative partners) on the legal status of the proposed 
partner, its operating environment, financial viability, mission and values, 
management and organisational structure, academic provision, overall staffing and 
staffing available to the collaborative activity. 
 
20. All arrangements for collaborative activity must be detailed in a Senate-approved 
collaborative agreement. A memorandum of understanding will not suffice as this is 
simply a statement of intent to explore possible forms of collaboration.  
Signing of Collaborative Agreements 
21. A collaborative agreement or memorandum of understanding should not be signed 
by the member of academic staff negotiating it. All collaborative agreements must 
follow the procedures within this policy and be reviewed by the Collaborative 
Provision Agreement Subgroup, approved by Senate and signed by the Principal. 
This workflow is detailed in Annex 2
.  
 
22. The only exceptions to Clause 21 are: 
a. Student Exchange Agreements where exchange opportunities are open only 
to students from a particular department or faculty may be signed by the 
Executive Dean of the relevant faculty (not the Head of Department). Student 
Exchange agreements do not require Senate approval unless they are 
University-wide agreements.  
b. Articulation Agreements where progression is determined by faculties based 
on qualifications, standard programmes and standard fees should be signed by 
the Executive Dean of the relevant faculty (not the Head of Department). 
Articulation agreements where progression is automatic, the programme is not a 
standard programme (e.g. 2+2 arrangements) and special fee arrangements 
apply should be approved by Senate via the Collaborative Provision Agreement 
Subgroup.  
 
23. A signed copy of all formal collaborative agreements in respect of collaborative 
provision, service support for off-campus learning, and external and jointly supervised 
research students should be uploaded onto the Collaborative Agreements Database.  
 
24. A copy of all institutional agreements in respect of international student exchanges 
should be lodged with the Recruitment and International Office (RIO). All local 
arrangements should be retained in the faculty office and a copy sent to RIO.  
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) 
25. An MoU is not normally required by the University; however, this may be required by 
the partner institution before a more detailed agreement is discussed. The desire to 
discuss collaborative ventures may be recognised initially through a memorandum of 
understanding along the lines set down in the MoU template. MoUs are the 
responsibility of Faculties through the office of the Executive Dean, unless they 
involve more than one Faculty, and therefore come under the Principal's Office. MoUs

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
 
must not be used in place of collaborative agreements and would not normally be 
signed where no further agreement or collaboration was anticipated. 
 
26. An MoU should be signed within the faculty by the Executive Dean (or nominee), or, 
in the case of institution-wide agreements, by the Principal (or nominee) and details 
should be entered in the Collaborative Agreements Database. An MoU cannot 
commit the University to anything more specific than a willingness to discuss potential 
collaborative activities, anything more specific requires a collaborative agreement 
which must be approved by Senate via the Collaborative Provision Agreement 
Subgroup and signed by the Principal or nominee. 
 
27. MoUs should be noted at the CPA Subgroup by the appropriate faculty 
representative, or by RIO if University wide, and reported to Senate through the 
Faculty or CPA Report to Senate. Copies of the signed MoU should be kept in the 
relevant Faculty Office or RIO and uploaded onto the University’s Collaborative 
Agreements Database by the Faculty Office or RIO. 
 
28. If any MoUs have obligations or commitments upon the University, then further advice 
should be sought from the CPA Subgroup, through Education Enhancement, who 
may in turn seek input from Legal Services or other areas of the University as 
appropriate.  
Draft Collaborative Agreement 
29. If the responsible person within the faculty agrees that the proposed partner is 
appropriate and that the proposed collaborative activity fits within faculty strategic and 
academic plans and with their academic profile and expertise, then consideration can 
be given to the preparation of a draft collaborative agreement. Assistance may be 
sought from: the Faculty Office for wider faculty information and strategic ‘fit’; Legal 
Services for advice on contractual terms and conditions, partnerships, international 
issues and exchange; the Information Governance Unit for advice relating to data 
sharing; Education Enhancement for quality assurance issues in completing an 
agreement; and Senate Business Committee’s Collaborative Provision Agreement 
Subgroup for Recognition of Prior Learning and special fees.  
 
30. The University requires due diligence to have taken place with regards to the 
proposed partner’s infrastructure and facilities and for this to be reported on. Where 
students will be registered for a University of Strathclyde award, the University will 
want to be assured that the collaborating body has the capability to provide, and 
assure the quality of, an appropriate student learning experience. In these cases, 
information should be provided to demonstrate a relevant track record and 
experience, appropriate internal procedures (preferably endorsed by external quality 
assurance review) and adequate facilities for learning support. 
 
31. In all cases, Senate expects faculties to satisfy themselves that: 
a. each partner institution has the legal capacity to enter into the proposed 
collaborative arrangements and award joint degrees if appropriate (i.e. single 
parchment in name of all partner institutions); 
b. each partner institution is adequately resourced and is currently operating on a 
sound financial basis; 
c. each institution’s mission and strategic aims (including the learning and teaching 
strategy) align with those of the University of Strathclyde; 
d. each partner institution complies with the relevant national quality assurance 
regime;

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
e. due diligence has been carried out with regards to each partner institution’s 
infrastructure and facilities; 
f. the standard of each programme is appropriate to the award;  
g. there are appropriate internal structures to assure standards and quality in the 
HE provision; 
h. staff in the area of collaboration are appropriately qualified;  
i. the administrative structures underpinning effective admission, delivery, 
assessment and maintenance of student data are appropriate and robust; 
j. the quality of the student learning experience is comparable to that within the 
University itself; 
k. there are adequate resources to facilitate student learning in an HE 
environment;  
l. each partner institution offers a safe work and study environment;  
m. each partner institution complies with local Health and Safety standards;  
n. each institution operates an environment of equal opportunity for all students 
and staff, including appropriate provision for those with disabilities.  
 
32. The checklist on the Collaborative Provision SharePoint site
 provides further detailed 
guidance that should be considered at this stage.  
 
33. Discussions with the proposed partner can only proceed once information on 
the legal and financial standing and educational vision of the proposed partner 
has been assessed and agreed to be appropriate by the responsible person 
within the faculty (Executive Dean/Head of International Development and 
Recruitment or equivalent). 
Liaison with Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs) 
34. Departments and faculties should inform any professional, statutory or regulatory 
body which has approved, recognised or accredited a programme of any possible or 
actual collaborative arrangements that have a direct impact on accreditation and 
should ensure that the status of the programme in respect of PSRB accreditation is 
made clear to prospective students.  
Financial Arrangements 
35. Collaborative education must be fully costed and accurately accounted for and should 
be of clear benefit to the University. A business case should be prepared including a 
risk matrix. Adequate safeguards should be in place against financial or other risks 
which might compromise academic standards or the quality of learning opportunities. 
Validation fees for the new session need to be set timeously and these fees must be 
communicated to the partner institution, following the approval of the Fee Strategy 
Group. 
 
36. Any collaborative agreements with special fee arrangements must be reviewed by the 
Chief Financial Officer and the Collaborative Provision Agreement Subgroup, prior to 
approval by the Principal through Senate.  
Collaborative Agreements 
37. All collaborative programmes that lead to awards (including 
joint, dual or double 
awards) o f the University must  be governed by a formal written collaborative 
agreement approved by Senate and signed by the Principal (or nominee) and the 
responsible person in the collaborating agency or institution.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 
 
 
38. Where the University of Strathclyde is the administering institution, the Faculty Office 
and academic leader for the programme should draw up a draft agreement based on 
one or more of the standard University templates that are available on the SharePoint 
site. A ll such agreements must be made subject to the University’s Standard Terms 
and Conditions for collaborative provision. 
 
39. Before a collaborative agreement can be signed, it must have been approved by the 
relevant Faculty Board of Study and by Senate Business Committee’s Collaborative 
Provision Agreement Subgroup. The faculty will require to complete the following 
paperwork as the basis for the recommendation of a collaborative agreement to, and 
final approval by, Senate: 
a. a detailed Programme Proposal, as for other University programmes;  
b. draft Programme Regulations, as for other University programmes (which should 
state the name of the collaborating body and indicate which parts of the 
programme will be delivered by the collaborating body); 
c. a draft agreement. 
 
40. It is the responsibility of the leading department/faculty to ensure that detailed 
programme proposals and regulations are prepared and submitted to the relevant 
faculty committees and the Regulations Subgroup of QAC, (regulations-
amendments@strath.ac.uk), i n accordance with the guidance for p rogramme and 
module approval. New modules must be set up in time for delivery in the new 
session.  
 
41. Appropriate consultation should take place with the partner(s) in parallel with 
Strathclyde’s internal approval process. Senate approval is subject to any necessary 
minor changes that may be agreed subsequently with the partner, the Faculty Office 
and, where appropriate, the Senior Officer with responsibility for Learning and 
Teaching (Vice Principal or nominee).  
 
42. The leading academic and the Faculty Office are responsible for finalising the 
proposed agreement and ensuring that the final agreement is signed, and that the 
details are entered on the Collaborative Agreements Database.  
 
43. The head(s) of the relevant department(s) is responsible for ensuring that the 
collaboration proceeds in accordance with the agreement. 
 
44. The Faculty Office is responsible for ensuring that the agreement is reviewed at the 
appropriate time. This would normally occur every three years, and six months prior 
to expiry as detailed in the Collaborative Education Provision Review Template, 
available from the Collaborative Provision SharePoint site.  
 
45. Where Strathclyde is not the administering institution, the University would expect to 
sign a comparable agreement prepared by the administering institution and approved 
by Senate.  
 
46. The review of Collaborative Education Provision should take place every three years 
(following the completion of three full academic cycles of each agreement). If the 
outcome of the first or any subsequent review indicates cause for concern, if there 
are significant changes to the collaborative relationship, issues that require to be 
addressed at operational level, or a request for review from the collaborative partner, 
a shorter interval may be recommended between reviews. Each review will be 
considered at a joint meeting of QAC and CPA Subgroup in June/July each year.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10 
 
Collaborative Agreements Database 
47. The Collaborative Agreements Database should be updated regularly by each 
Faculty Office in respect of agreements generated within the faculty. The data will be 
made available to the Quality Assurance Committee at the time of the discussion of 
the Annual Faculty Reports.  
 
48. Responsibilities are as follows: 
a. Each Faculty Office is responsible for updating the Collaborative Agreements 
Database with relevant information on collaborative activities. 
b. Education Enhancement has a quality assurance and monitoring role and 
provides advice on adherence to the Collaborative Education Provision policy. 
c. The Recruitment and International Office is responsible for coordinating and 
managing international student exchange activity and study abroad agreements; 
the record of student exchange activity will be maintained through the Mobility 
Online system rather that the Collaborative Agreements Database. 
 
49. The Collaborative Agreements Database identifies, as relevant, for each agreement: 
 
• title of agreement 
• location of partner institution (country) 
• type of agreement 
• name of partner institution 
• dates of duration of agreement (valid from and to) 
• the responsible faculty(ies) 
• the responsible department(s) 
• name of the University of Strathclyde contact 
• date of signature of memorandum of understanding (if appropriate) 
• date of Senate approval 
• date of signature 
• date of next faculty review (if applicable) 
• date of last QAC review (if applicable) 
• date of next QAC review  
• date of termination of agreement (if applicable) 
 
50. New agreements should be added once they have been approved. The dates of 
Senate approval and signature should be added following the meeting of Senate 
which gave the approval. 
 
RESPONSIBILITY FOR, AND EQUIVALENCE OF, ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
51. Quality assurance arrangements for collaborative provision must be as rigorous as 
those for the University’s internal provision. As far as possible they should accord with 
the relevant University policies, procedures and guidelines. In particular:  
a. all collaborative provision should be appropriately located within the Scottish 
Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF) in terms of both level and credit; 
b. standards should be benchmarked by reference to the QAA national subject 
benchmarks (where available) and the use of peer review through the work of 
the External Examiners and, where relevant, Professional Statutory and 
Regulatory Bodies; 
c. any divergences from UK reference points (e.g. relevant subject benchmark 
statements, etc.) should be explicitly acknowledged and explained in the 
agreement;

--- PAGE 11 ---

11 
 
d. the processes and procedures for programme and module approval and review 
should be integrated with the University’s own quality assurance procedures;  
e. there should be clear processes for student representation and for seeking and 
responding to the views of students; 
f. be reviewed where appropriate by the Collaborative Provision Agreements 
Subgroup. 
 
52. For all arrangements that lead to awards of the University of Strathclyde, the 
University of Strathclyde will be the administering institution. For collaboration that 
leads to joint awards, either of the partner institutions may take on this role by 
agreement with the other partner institutions. The administering institution will take 
the lead in establishing the details of the collaborative activity and will be responsible 
for the academic standard of the programme and all aspects of programme and 
student administration, including quality assurance and enhancement. 
 
53. In the case of articulation arrangements, the partner institution will be responsible for 
the academic standards of provision and the quality of the student learning 
experience while students are in attendance at that institution. The University of 
Strathclyde will be responsible for the academic standards of provision and the 
quality of the student learning experience at Strathclyde and for the standard of the 
final award. 
 
54. Where the University validates a programme delivered in whole or in part by a partner 
institution it accepts responsibility for the academic standard of the programme and 
the level and credit-rating within SCQF. The University will approve and monitor the 
validated programme alongside its own programmes using the appropriate structures 
and processes. 
 
55. Where the University agrees to provide joint supervision of research students, 
supervision arrangements and the standard of awards are the responsibility of the 
administering institution. Any arrangement with another institution/agency to jointly 
supervise a student on a research programme leading to an award or joint award of 
the University must be approved by Senate.  
 
56. Similarly, any arrangement with another institution/agency to register a student as an 
external research student of the University must be approved by Senate. All such 
arrangements must be formalised in writing and signed by the appropriate Executive 
Dean (or nominee) and the responsible person in the external agency.  
 
57. Responsibility for assuring due diligence with partner institutions and students for 
student exchange programmes rests with the relevant Head of Department (or 
nominee) in the first instance. Any resultant bilateral agreements must be signed by 
the Executive Dean (or nominee) for faculty- or department-specific agreements, or 
the Principal (or nominee) where the agreement is institution wide. Arrangements for 
credit transfer from any such international student exchanges must be agreed with 
the Head of Department (or nominee) before the exchange takes place.  
 
58. Credit transfer will not exceed 25% of the total credit required for an honours degree 
or 34% for a pass degree without the approval of the appropriate Faculty Academic 
Committee and Senate. Assessments carried out by the collaborating institution will 
not count for more than 10% of marks for the purposes of Honours Classification 
without the approval of the Faculty Board of Study.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12 
 
ASSURING ACADEMIC STANDARDS AND THE QUALITY OF PROGRAMMES 
AND AWARDS 
Duration, Modification and Review of Agreements 
59. Agreements will be valid in the first instance for an appropriate period as specified in 
the agreement.  
 
60. Agreements may be modified by written agreement of both parties. Modifications 
must allow students already on a programme to complete the programme under the 
terms and conditions they originally enrolled on. 
 
61. Agreements will be subject to periodic review as prescribed by the joint meeting of 
QAC and CPA Subgroup to a normal maximum of three yearly intervals, and six 
months prior to expiry as detailed in the Collaborative Education Provision Review 
template, available on the Collaborative Provision SharePoint site
. 
Termination of Agreements 
62. Agreements may be terminated by mutual agreement of the University of Strathclyde 
and the partner institution, provided that an agreed minimum period of notice is given 
and that the interests of any students already studying under the terms of the 
agreement are safeguarded. 
 
63. In addition, the University of Strathclyde may terminate an agreement for any 
significant breach of the terms of that agreement, such as: 
a. a decline in the standard of the operation or delivery of the programme identified 
by periodic review which the University feels cannot be sufficiently rectified in an 
appropriate timescale; 
b. extensive deviation from the agreed module and/or programme proposal; 
c. factors affecting financial viability; 
d. deviation from other matters detailed in the agreement (such as the use of the 
University of Strathclyde name in other contexts, financial irregularities, equality 
and diversity, and health and safety); 
e. risk, by association, and so adverse effect by continued association.  
 
64. When a collaborative agreement comes to an end or is terminated the interests of 
any students already studying under the terms of the agreement must be 
safeguarded. 
 
65. Any decision to terminate the agreement will be subject to satisfactory arrangements 
being made to enable existing students to complete their programme and be 
assessed for the award for which they registered. Such arrangements will be 
determined by agreement between the University and the partner institution. 
 
66. The following should be considered when agreeing an exit strategy and will apply 
until 
all students have graduated or otherwise left the programme(s) concerned: 
a. External Examiners will continue to be appointed and to carry out their duties. 
b. Examination Boards will continue to be held. 
c. If a Joint Management Committee was formed, it should continue to meet. 
d. Annual Monitoring will continue in line with normal procedures. 
e. All scheduled reviews will be carried out.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13 
 
f. Any fees payable by either institution will continue to be paid relative to the 
remaining number of students. 
 
67. A decision to withdraw must be communicated promptly to the partner institution and 
must allow sufficient time for detailed arrangements to be discussed and agreed. 
Where a decision to terminate is taken voluntarily, by mutual consent, or is, in effect, 
a decision not to renew, sufficient time should be built in to the notice period to allow 
all students to complete their programme. A date should be agreed for the final intake 
of students as well as a method of calculating the appropriate fees payable by either 
institution where these are not already calculated on a per student basis. 
 
68. An action plan should be agreed between the faculty and partner institution and 
Faculty Academic Committee kept informed. Where the withdrawal also involves 
withdrawal of a programme, approval must be sought from Senate. 
 
69. Following the completion or departure of the final students, the faculty should write to 
the partner institution to confirm the termination of the agreement and the Quality 
Assurance Committee informed. 
 
70. Where a joint institute or centre has been set up in connection with a joint 
programme, any decision to terminate the agreement will be subject to satisfactory 
arrangements being made in relation to staff employed by that institute or centre. The 
HR Departments at all the partner institutions should be consulted at an early stage. 
Policy on Serial Agreements 
71. The written agreements underpinning all collaborative provision should make clear 
that the partner may only offer approved collaborative provision at a venue other than 
that specified in the collaborative agreement with the express written permission of 
the University. This permission will only be granted once the University is convinced 
that the academic and physical infrastructure at the new venue is suitable. 
 
72. Similarly, the partner organisation may only assign the powers delegated to it by the 
University to a third party with the express written permission of the University. 
Assessment Requirements 
73. Where a partner institution is involved in the assessment of students for Strathclyde 
awards, it is essential that it understands and follows the University’s requirements for 
the conduct of assessments. 
External Examining 
74. External Examining procedures for modules and programmes offered through 
collaborative arrangements should be consistent with the University’s normal 
practices as laid down in the policies and regulations of the University as approved by 
Senate. 
 
75. The awarding institution must retain ultimate responsibility for the appointment, 
functions and briefing of External Examiners, including responding to External 
Examiners’ reports. 
Certificates and Transcripts 
76. The University of Strathclyde retains sole authority for the award of certificates and 
final transcripts relating to its programmes delivered through collaborative 
arrangements.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14 
 
77. The certificate and/or the transcript must record the language of instruction and the 
language of assessment where this was not English (except where this relates to the 
study of a foreign language where the principal language of assessment is also the 
language of study). 
 
78. The certificate and/or the transcript should normally record the name and location of 
any partner organisation engaged in the delivery of the programme of study leading 
to the award.  
Information for Students 
79. All students registered on a collaborative programme should, as a minimum, have a 
copy of the programme specification approved by the awarding institution. 
 
80. It is important that all students understand the nature of their formal relationship with 
the University, and which partner organisation is responsible for which part of their 
learning experience. Information available to students and prospective students on a 
collaborative programme should include information about the appropriate channels 
for particular concerns, complaints, appeals and discipline. 
 
81. The University requires that the information given by the partner organisation or agent 
to students and prospective students on collaborative programmes be monitored 
regularly to ensure that it is accurate, complete and up to date. 
Publicity and Marketing 
82. In order to ensure that there is no opportunity for misunderstanding of the nature 
and standing of the programmes and awards provided under a particular collaborative 
arrangement, partner institutions must agree that the name of the University of 
Strathclyde shall only be associated with the modules and/or programmes detailed in 
the collaborative agreement. The name of the University of Strathclyde should not be 
associated with the partner institution in any other connection. 
 
83. All publications pertaining to modules and/or programmes which are the subject of 
agreement shall be approved by the faculty nominee prior to publication and use. 
Shared Module Arrangements 
84. The University may permit students to take modules at other higher education 
institutions (HEIs) on the recommendation of the relevant faculty and with the 
approval of Senate and where modules are of an appropriate level and credit 
weighting. The following basic guidelines have been agreed and may be further 
refined to suit specific degree regulations. 
 
85. Arrangements will be made at departmental level and the departments concerned 
should agree on the modules to be made available to students in the collaborating 
university. Efforts should be made to develop a convenient timetable for teaching, 
taking into account the need for staff or students to travel between institutions. 
 
86. There must be excellent communication between the departments, the students and 
the Student Business sections or equivalent of the institutions concerned. A Module 
Co-ordinator (agreed by both departments) must be appointed for each shared 
module. The Module Co-ordinator will be responsible for ensuring that both Student 
Business sections have the appropriate information about each shared module 
(module title, the programme(s) that the module is to be part of, etc.) and for seeing 
that information on the shared module is made available on web sites, in handbooks 
and other public material.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15 
 
87. Where the institutions concerned operate different assessment schemes, assessment 
in shared modules will conform to the practice in the department delivering the 
module and where necessary the final mark will be converted (as agreed by the 
departments at the outset) into the appropriate format for the student's home 
institution. The Module Co-ordinator will be responsible for reporting student marks to 
the student's home institution in the format appropriate to that institution. The 
student's home institution will be responsible for recording and publishing the module 
result. An appropriate data sharing agreement should be approved, in consultation 
with the Information Governance Unit, to accompany the collaborative agreement. 
 
88. Students will register at their home institution only. It is expected that students taking 
shared modules will only require access to the facilities of their home university. 
 
89. It is expected that there will be a comparable volume of student exchange so that 
cross charging will not be necessary. If there is expected to be an imbalance, 
arrangements for cross-charging should be agreed by the faculty in advance. 
External Research Students 
90. A department/faculty can accept a student to undertake a research degree outwith 
the University (for example within a company or Government Research Laboratory). 
Any proposal to register a student as an external research student of the University 
must be explicitly notified to the Head of Department for approval. 
 
91. The arrangements for external research students will, as far as possible, follow the 
normal procedures and guidelines for postgraduate research programmes set out in 
the University’s Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Students
 as approved 
by Senate. In particular and in accordance with these PGR Guidelines: 
a. two University Supervisors should normally be appointed in addition to any 
External Supervisor; 
b. the University Supervisors should ensure compliance with the University’s Policy 
and Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Programmes; 
c. the University Supervisors should ensure that appropriate arrangements are 
made for regular contact between the internal supervisors, the external 
supervisor or contact point and the student. 
 
92. Academic staff are also reminded that the 
QAA Quality Code Advice and Guidelines 
for Research Degrees, UK Research and Innovation and the University’s Research 
Policy pl ace considerable emphasis on providing students with research training, 
appropriate instructional classes and contact with an appropriate research 
community. Arrangements for external research students must take this into account. 
 
93. In order to expedite requests to the faculty and Senate for approval of external 
research students, the appropriate form (contact PGR Admissions) must be 
completed and signed by the Head of Department, appropriate signatories in the 
external agency and the relevant 
Executive Dean (or nominee). Approval requests to 
Senate must confirm that the appropriate form has been completed with copies 
returned to Student Experience. 
Joint Supervision Arrangements 
94. Any proposal for a department or faculty to collaborate with another institution/agency 
(University X) to jointly supervise a student on a research programme leading to an 
award or joint award of the University must be explicitly notified to Senate Business 
Committee’s Collaborative Provision Agreement Subgroup for approval.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16 
 
95. Proposals to Senate must confirm one of the following: 
EITHER 
a. The University of Strathclyde will be the administering institution.  
In this case, University of Strathclyde terms and conditions, procedures, 
guidelines and regulations will apply. Students will be students of the University 
of Strathclyde: they will be bound by University of Strathclyde regulations and 
will be entitled to use the student support services of either University. 
OR 
b. The University of X will be the administering institution.  
In this case University of X procedures, guidelines and regulations will apply. 
Students will be students of the University of X: they will be bound by University 
of X regulations and will be entitled to use the student support services of either 
university. Senate may nevertheless insist that the University of Strathclyde 
Senate is required to approve the Examining Committee. This option may only 
be used where the collaborating institution has powers to award research 
degrees and where Senate considers it appropriate. 
 
96. The arrangements for jointly supervised students will as far as possible follow the 
normal procedures and guidelines for postgraduate research programmes set out in 
the University’s Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Students 
 as approved 
by Senate. 
 
97. In order to expedite requests to the Faculty Board and Senate for approval of jointly 
supervised students, the appropriate form (contact PGR Admissions) must be 
completed and signed by the Head of Department, appropriate signatories in the 
external agency and the relevant Vice Dean and/or Head of International 
Development and Recruitment (or equivalent). Approval requests to Senate must 
confirm that the appropriate form has been completed with copies returned to Student 
Experience and the Faculty Office. 
 
98. These agreements for external and jointly supervised research students should also 
be made subject to the University’s Standard Terms and Conditions for collaborative 
provision. 
International Student Exchanges 
99. A rrangements for student exchanges within the EU are normally based on the 
European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) and the ECTS quality standards in respect 
of documentation, learning agreements for individual students and student 
transcripts. Departments are expected to adopt ECTS or comparable standards for all 
student exchanges. 
 
100. Departments and faculties are expected to monitor international exchange 
arrangements and are encouraged to comment on student uptake and feedback in 
the annual Faculty Annual Reports to the Quality Assurance Committee, Senate and 
Court. This information should be shared with RIO.  
 
101. RIO provides support to international students coming into Strathclyde and maintains 
oversight of student movements under institutional exchange schemes. RIO also 
maintains the Mobility Online database for exchange students. The faculties are 
responsible for ensuring the currency of the collaborative agreements on the 
Collaborative Agreements Database. Quality assurance of current agreements lies 
with Education Enhancement.  
 
102. Students taking a year out abroad to study a language and culture as a compulsory 
part of their Strathclyde degree are exceptions to the foregoing arrangements and the

--- PAGE 17 ---

17 
 
responsibility for student support and monitoring in these cases rests with their 
department and faculty in the first instance. 
Dual Degree Awards 
103. Dual awards are subject to the principles and procedures governing other forms of 
collaborative provision. Further rationale and context on dual awards are described 
in Annex 1.  
 
104. A faculty can submit a statement of intent to Quality Assurance Committee seeking 
an ‘agreement in principle’ for new proposals to ensure early compliance with 
minimum requirements. Departments are encouraged to liaise with the Student 
Experience Directorate, including Education Enhancement in the first instance and 
Student Business. RIO should also be consulted in the early developmental stages of 
a new dual/joint/double degree programme proposal.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18 
 
ANNEX 1 – POLICY FOR THE AWARDING OF DUAL DEGREES 
Rationale 
1. Collaboration and partnerships are at the heart of our strategic approach to education 
as a leading international technological university. In this context, the ability to 
engage in partnerships to deliver dual awards (as defined in Clause 6 below) is seen 
as a natural way of extending existing strategic institutional partnerships or a potential 
component in establishing new ones. 
 
2. There are many benefits to be achieved through collaborative partnerships which 
seek to develop and deliver dual awards, including: 
a. the development of deeper, sustainable relationships with key partners; 
b. academic benefits including curriculum innovation, exchange of staff and access 
to new expertise and networks;  
c. opportunities to increase our reputation and ranking as an international 
university, through strategic collaborations with partners of good standing 
aligned with our institutional values. 
 
3. It is recognised that while there are no standardised ways of defining the curriculum 
shape of different partnerships, the institution must set out minimum expectations in 
order to preserve the core characteristics of education at Strathclyde, which is 
integrated with research and knowledge exchange and which seeks to develop global 
graduates with impact. Furthermore, the academic integrity of degree programmes 
must be rigorously assured in order that dual degrees merit the award of the 
University of Strathclyde. 
 
4. In order to ensure clarity and consistency across such partnerships, this document 
outlines the proposed definition, scope and principles upon which agreements for 
dual awards may be approved. 
Principles of Awarding Dual Degrees 
5. This document sets out the principles against which the University will consider 
agreements for dual awards. 
 
6. Definitions 
a. Joint: a programme of study developed jointly by two or more institutions 
leading to a single qualification awarded jointly by both, or all, institutions. 
b. Dual: two separate degree-awarding bodies jointly design a programme of 
study comprising a joint curriculum, which diverges at a given point leading 
to two entirely separate qualifications awarded individually by the two degree- 
awarding bodies. 
c. Double: two or more degree-awarding bodies jointly develop and deliver a 
single programme (whether taught or research) leading to separate 
qualifications (and separate certification) being granted by both, or all, of them. 
 
7. ‘Equivalent level’ is used to advise that the dual degrees conferred are of the same 
standing (e.g. SCQF level 11 and FQ-HEA level 7, which both correspond to 
postgraduate diploma and master’s-level study), recognising that titles themselves 
may differ across regions.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19 
 
8. The dual award will result in an academic transcript from each institution, where each 
institution explicitly recognises the award of the other institution, based on an agreed 
and transparent definition of standards. 
 
9. Dual degree programmes are distinct from joint degree programmes in that joint 
degree programmes award a single qualification upon completion of the collaborative 
programme requirements established by two partner institutions. 
 
10. Partner institutions may be UK or international partnerships, however, they must be 
able to demonstrate strategic alignment, as outlined within the introduction
 of this 
policy: “The Charter of the University permits it to co-operate with other university 
authorities for ‘the conduct of examinations and for such other purposes as the 
University may from time to time determine’. In addition, it permits students to 
undertake programmes of study, examinations and periods of study at other 
universities or places of learning. These permissions have enabled the development 
of collaborative arrangements with appropriate institutions and agencies in the UK 
and overseas where these support the University’s strategic objectives and where 
there is clear educational benefit to the students and the partners concerned.  
Scope 
11. The Policy and Code of Practice is developed in accordance with the Expectations 
and Practices of the UK Quality Code for Higher Education, Advice and Guidance on 
Partnerships.  
 
12. The Policy covers applications for programmes leading to dual award at master’s 
level only. Honours-level programmes and integrated master’s programmes are 
excluded from this policy. This does not preclude the extension of dual award 
provision to undergraduate or integrated master’s in future, pending amendment of 
the policy. 
 
13. The partner institution must be a body which has the authority under its national law 
to award degrees, including as dual awards. 
 
14. The Policy and Code of Practice outlines the process for approval, renewal and 
termination of agreements for dual awards. 
 
15. T he University may engage in transnational education (TNE) in line with strategic 
requirements and following approval by the Executive Team. 
Requirements for Dual Awards 
16. The University will consider applications for programmes leading to dual awards at 
master’s level where the complete programme of study comprises no fewer than 240 
SCQF credits (equivalent to 120 ECTS credits). 
 
17. The University requires that: 
a. a minimum of 80 SCQF credits are awarded by the University of Strathclyde; 
b. a minimum of 80 SCQF credits are awarded by the partner university; 
c. d epartments/faculties will be expected to articulate the rationale for the 
development of the dual degree in the programme proposal, explicitly 
evidencing: 
d. t he benefits to the University of outlining how the programme will integrate with 
and enhance all levels of the Strathclyde strategic partnership; 
e. t he pedagogic benefits of the dual degree programme for the student and, where 
relevant, the institution;

--- PAGE 20 ---

20 
 
f. t he cultural and social benefits to the broader student experience articulated 
through the Strathclyde graduate attributes (engaged, enterprising, enquiring, 
and ethically, socially and globally aware); 
g. t he expected level of engagement of students with the education experience at 
Strathclyde. 
 
18. The rationale (in particular 17.f) is required as evidence of additionality to the student 
experience essential to articulating how the programme merits a dual award. This will 
be provided in addition to the minimum additional 60 credits. 
 
19. A minimum duration shall exist for dual awards of no less than 18 months, except in 
exceptional circumstances and with the approval of Senate. 
 
20. The proposal will outline mechanisms to ensure the quality of the academic award, 
consistent with the expectation and indicators within the 
UK Quality Code for Higher 
Education, Advice and Guidance on Partnerships.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21 
 
ANNEX 2 – WORKFLOW OF COLLABORATIVE AGREEMENT PROCESS 
 
STAGE 1
            
    
• Consult SharePoint site to determine type of collaborative agreement. 
• Consult Annex 3 to determine sign off level. 
• Check with Faculty Office to determine viability. 
• Consult Collaborative Agreements Database for existing collaborations with proposed partner.  
• Advise, as appropriate, relevant Professional Services departments of potential new 
collaborative activity i.e. Office of the UCO, Finance, Student Experience, RIO. If an MoU, 
consult relevant PS departments before signing in line with clause 25.  Obtain faculty approval 
‘in principle’. 
 
 
 
 
 
STAGE 2 
 
 
 
STAGE 3 
 
• Refer to Legal Services (for contractual issues), QEAT and Faculty Offices for advice on 
drafting a collaborative agreement. 
• Draft agreement will include the following information: 
 detailed programme proposal 
 draft regulations 
 draft collaborative provision agreement. 
 
STAGE 4  
 
• Subgroup to review and assess new agreements leading to awards and ensure strategic  
alignment.  
• Subgroup to feed back to faculty if any amendments to be made or will advise faculty if 
agreement is being put forward to Senate. 
 
 
STAGE 5 
 
 
• Relevant Professional Services notified of approval i.e. Library, IT, Admissions, RIO, Finance, 
Student Experience, Legal Services etc.  
 
STAGE 6 
 
 
 
STAGE 7 
 
 
• Original signed copy to be sent to Archives, photocopy to faculty and University Collaborative 
Agreements Database to be updated. 
 
STAGE 8 
 
 
A Senate Approval Route Record can be found overleaf.
Department signals intention to develop a new collaborative agreement 
Faculty approval in principle 
 
Discussions with partner organisation on form of collaboration, 
programme and arrangements 
Draft collaborative agreement 
Collaborative Provision Agreements Subgroup review and assessment 
Faculty to send agreement to Senate including any relevant amendments 
made by Subgroup 
Approval by Senate 
Signing of collaborative agreement by the Principal and partner institution 
All collaborative agreements to be subject to review as detailed in 
collaborative provision review template available from QAC

--- PAGE 22 ---

22 
 
ANNEX 2 continued 
Collaborative Agreements: Senate Approval Route Record 
Collaborative 
Agreement  
 
Faculty  
 
Faculty 
Due 
Diligence 
(confirmation) 
Details Date 
Received 
by Senate 
Manager 
Circulated 
to SBC/ 
Subgroup 
Comments/ 
Deadline 
Approved 
by 
Principal/ 
Senate 
(Date) 
Faculty/RIO 
Informed 
Notify 
Senate 
          
          
          
 
Draft Process for Standard Programme Approval (i.e. Collaborations where programmes are awarding credit from the University of Strathclyde 
and require the approval of Senate) 
Stage 1:  Agreement drafted by faculty, signed off and notified by Academic Committee (propose implementing cover sheet/form indicating faculty 
sign off). 
Stage 2:  Faculty sends collaboration agreement documentation (and form/cover sheet) to Senate Manager (electronically) who logs details in 
tracking document (example above). 
Stage 3:  Collaboration agreement discussed with Vice Principal and circulated to Senate Business Committee/Collaborative Provision Agreement 
Subgroup. 
Stage 4:  Senate Business Committee endorses agreement for the approval of Senate. 
Stage 5:  EITHER agreement signed off by Principal on behalf of Senate via Vice Principal OR submitted to Senate for Senate business approval. 
Stage 6:  Once approved, Senate Committee Manager informs the faculty who complete the Collaborative Agreements Database and inform 
Archives. Senate Committee Manager updates Approval Route Record.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23 
 
ANNEX 3 – COLLABORATIVE AGREEMENT SIGNATURES 
TO BE SIGNED BY THE 
PRINCIPAL (OR NOMINEE) 
AND/OR APPROVED AT 
SENATE VIA CPA 
SUBGROUP 
TO BE SIGNED BY THE 
EXECUTIVE DEAN (OR 
NOMINEE) 
TO BE SIGNED BY 
HEAD OF 
DEPARTMENT 
University wide student 
exchange agreements and 
special fee agreements. 
Student Exchange agreements 
open only to students from a 
particular department or 
faculty. 
 
Articulation where progression 
is automatic, non-standard 
programme and special fee 
arrangements apply.  
Articulation where progression 
is determined by faculties 
based on qualifications for 
standard programmes and 
standard fees apply.  
 
Institution-wide student 
exchange agreements.  
Appropriate arrangements with 
partner institutions and 
students for student exchange 
programmes rests with Heads 
of department. Resultant bi-
lateral agreements to be signed 
by the Executive Dean.  
Appropriate 
arrangements with 
partner institutions and 
students for student 
exchange programmes 
rests with Heads of 
Department. 
Where the language taught in 
is not English. 
 Arrangements for credit 
transfer from any 
international student 
exchanges must be 
agreed with Head of 
Department (or nominee) 
before the exchange 
takes place. 
Joint, double or dual degree 
awards.  
  
Any arrangement with another 
institution/ agency to jointly 
supervise a student on a 
research programme.  
  
Any arrangement with another 
institution/ agency to register a 
student as an external 
research student of the 
University.  
  
Renewals where material 
changes have been made to 
the agreement.  
Renewals where no changes to 
the original agreement have 
been made.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24 
 
ANNEX 4 - GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
Articulation an arrangement whereby students, who have reached an 
agreed standard on a particular programme of study 
designed and delivered by an external agency, may enter a 
specific University programme, usually with advanced 
standing. The collaborating agency has the primary 
responsibility for assuring the quality of its own programme 
and the standard of any award given to the student before 
entry to the University. 
Administering Institution the institution taking the lead in administering a joint award of 
two or more institutions. The administering institution would 
register students on the joint award and would have a range 
of other responsibilities as detailed in the policy and shown in 
the collaborative agreement. 
Awarding Institution is an institution empowered to award degrees, diplomas, 
certificates or credits by virtue of authority given to it by 
statute, Royal Charter, or the Privy Council, or under licence 
from another authorised body. It is the institution whose 
academic award is the award to which a programme of study 
leads. 
Double degree two or more degree-awarding bodies jointly develop and 
deliver a single programme (whether taught or research) 
leading to separate qualifications (and separate certification) 
being granted by both, or all, of them.  
Dual degree two separate degree-awarding bodies jointly design a 
programme of study comprising a joint curriculum, which 
diverges at a given point leading to two entirely separate 
qualifications awarded individually by the two degree-
awarding bodies. 
European Credit Transfer 
System (ECTS) 
a credit system which provides a way of measuring and 
comparing learning achievements and transferring them from 
one institution to another. It is intended to assist in increasing 
the transparency of educational systems and facilitating the 
mobility of students across Europe. 
Franchising a hands-off business agreement in which the University 
subcontracts an appropriate providing institution to deliver 
programmes designed by the University. This would require a 
more formally documented process than that in operation for 
the University’s internal or validated programmes in order to 
ensure that the providing institution continues to maintain 
appropriate quality and standards. The continuing cost 
implication of this must be made clear and accepted by the 
University and the providing institution. The University does 
not enter into franchising agreements. 
Joint Programmes a programme of study developed jointly by two or more 
institutions leading to a single qualification awarded jointly by 
both, or all, institutions. 
Leading to Awards of the University 
The University will be responsible for detailed approval and 
administration of the programme as a whole in accordance

--- PAGE 25 ---

25 
 
with its normal procedures. 
Leading to Joint Awards of the University 
Partners must be appropriate institutions of Higher Education 
with degree awarding powers. The overall programme must 
be approved in outline by all of the awarding institutions and 
each institution will be responsible for the quality of the 
student learning experience and the academic standard of 
those parts of the programme it delivers. One institution is 
appointed administering institution to be responsible for 
detailed approval and administration of the programme in 
accordance with the normal procedures of that institution. 
The administering institution will be responsible for the 
production of an annual report to allow monitoring of 
academic quality and standards by all the partner institutions. 
Memorandum of 
Understanding 
a statement that the partners intend to discuss possible 
collaborative ventures. An MoU is not required by Strathclyde 
but may be desired by a partner before more formal 
negotiations can begin. An MoU does not commit the 
University to anything more than discussions and must be 
followed with a formal agreement before any collaborative 
activity commences. 
Partner/Partner Institution the term used to describe the institution or other body or 
individual with which the University enters into an agreement 
to collaborate. It is also used to describe an institution or 
other body which the University commissions to provide 
learner support. 
Quality Assurance the means through which an institution ensures and confirms 
that the conditions are in place for students to achieve the 
standards set by it or by another awarding body. 
Quality Assurance Agency 
for Higher Education (QAA) 
an independent body funded by subscriptions from 
universities and colleges and through contracts with the 
higher education funding bodies. It is responsible for 
safeguarding standards and improving the quality of higher 
education in the UK through and provides guidance on 
maintaining quality and standards for universities and 
colleges. It carries out external quality assurance by visiting 
universities and colleges to review how well they are fulfilling 
their responsibilities. The review methodology applied in 
Scotland is governed by the Tertiary Quality Enhancement 
Framework. 
The Quality Code The UK Quality Code for HE gives all higher education 
providers a shared starting point for setting, describing and 
assuring the academic standards of their higher education 
awards and programmes and the quality of the learning 
opportunities they provide. Providers use it to design their 
respective policies for maintaining academic standards and 
quality. It comprises three Parts relating to academic 
standards, academic quality and information about higher 
education provision. 
SCQF The Scottish Credit & Qualifications Framework brings 
together all the mainstream Scottish qualifications and 
provides a way of describing and comparing, qualifications. A 
qualification can be described in terms of the number of

--- PAGE 26 ---

26 
 
credit points which shows how much learning has been 
achieved, and the level which shows how demanding the 
learning is. 
Serial Agreement  where a partner organisation assigns the powers delegated 
to it by the University to a third party. This must only be done 
with the express written permission of the University. 
Service Support agreement whereby the University enters into a contract with 
an institution or agency to supply administrative and/or 
academic services to support the University’s programmes. 
Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
the University has a set of Standard Terms and Conditions 
which define the legal aspects of collaborative agreements. 
These can be found as an appendix to the templates on the 
SharePoint site.
 These should be used for all collaborative 
agreements. Where a proposed partner requires modification 
of the Standard Terms and Conditions, Legal Services and 
the Vice Principal should be consulted before agreeing to any 
changes. 
Student Exchange a reciprocal agreement for student exchange between 
universities for the educational and cultural enrichment of 
their students. During the term of the agreement each 
university will usually send an agreed number of 
undergraduate or integrated master’s students per year (or 
per semester) to be enrolled at the other university. The 
student will undertake existing modules at the other 
institution that will overtake relevant learning outcomes for 
the programme they are studying. The exact programme of 
study will be determined by the student with the approval of 
academic advisers at both the home and host institutions. 
Study Abroad arrangements under which students from a partner institution 
may enrol directly onto an undergraduate programme of 
study at Strathclyde on a visiting, fee-paying basis for one or 
two semesters.  
Transnational Education 
(TNE) 
 
the delivery of higher education level awards by recognised 
UK degree-awarding bodies in a country, or to students, 
other than where the awarding provider is based. 
Validation the formative, developmental, hands-on process by which the 
University assures itself, on a continuing basis, that 
programmes designed and delivered by appropriate external 
agencies are of an appropriate standard to lead to an award 
of the University and are consistent with the requirements of 
the SCQF in respect of credits and levels. (Programmes so 
validated will normally have different content and delivery 
details from internal programmes and this will normally be 
reflected in a different award title.)