--- PAGE 1 ---

COVID IMPACT 
STATEMENT FOR PGR 
THESIS SUBMISSIONS 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.1 Covid Impact 
Statement for PGR 
Submissions 
Strathclyde 
Doctoral 
School 
Senate - 
September 2021 
 
2021-22 
      Version 1.1 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

Covid-19 impact statement 
G
uidance for supervisors, PGRs and examiners 
T
hrough the period of the Covid-19 restrictions PGRs and supervisory teams have been encouraged 
to review and adjust the scope, phasing, design and direction of projects and, where possible, to 
mitigate the impact of Covid-19 disruption on PhD completion. Where appropriate, extensions have 
been put in place and PGRs have been encouraged to consider voluntary suspension where changes  
to personal circumstance have made academic progress difficult. 
In line with sector practice, Strathclyde supports the use of an optional Covid-19 impact statement, 
enabling PGRs to make examiners aware of the impact that Covid-19 has had on their research plan 
and thesis. PGRs who commenced their studies on or before 31 March 2020 and will submit from  
June 2021 onwards are entitled to submit a Covid-19 impact statement. Examiners should consider 
the impact statement alongside the thesis and performance at oral examination. 
The standards required remain unchanged (paragraphs 3-7 and 73 in the Academic Regulations, 
Level 12 in the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework) and degrees should be awarded based 
on the quality of research undertaken. The examining committee is responsible for determining that: 
a. the thesis is a record of the candidate’s original research or other advanced scholarship on
primary data sources or similar;
b. the thesis makes an identifiable contribution to knowledge leading to original insight or
understanding of a specific topic within the field of study;
c. the performance of the student in the oral examination was satisfactory;
d. the literary style and presentation of the thesis is satisfactory;
e. the thesis is worthy of publication, in part or in whole;
f. the candidate possesses a good general knowledge and understanding of the field of study and
has demonstrated an ability to conceptualise, design and implement an appropriate research
strategy and programme.
The Covid-19 impact statement can be used to highlight specific challenges and mitigations relating to  
Covid-19 restrictions. The Covid-19 impact statement should include 
1. A brief overview of the pre-Covid-19 research plan including details such as research design,
methods, analytical methods where appropriate to your discipline and how these connect
within the thesis plan. (500 words max)
2. Details on how Covid-19 related disruption impacted your research (for example, difficulties
collecting/analysing data because of travel/lab access restrictions, caring responsibilities, or
health issues). (500 words max)
3. A summary of any decision taken to mitigate for Covid-19 restrictions in terms of reduced data
sets or shorter chapters, changes to topic, methods, location of research etc. (500 words
max)
The Covid-19 impact statement should be discussed with the supervisory team prior to submission,  
endorsed by the lead supervisor (signed by the student and the lead supervisor) and bound into the 
thesis submitted for examination.