--- PAGE 1 ---

Dignity & Respect 
Policy  
 
 
Contents 
1. Introduction ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............ 1 
2. Who is Covered by this Policy? ................................ ................................ ................................ .......... 1 
3. Raising an Issue of Inappropriate Behaviour ................................ ................................ ......................  2 
4. Resolving Issues Informally ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  3 
5. Resolving Issues Formally ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................  6 
6. What Is Expected of You? ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  8 
7. Further Information and Support ................................ ................................ ................................ ........ 9 
8. Policy Review ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 10 
9. Appendix 1: Definitions ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................  10 
 
 
 
Policy Owner: Human Resources 
Last Review Date: October 2024 
Version: 1.1

--- PAGE 2 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 1 
 
 
1. Introduction 
At the University of Strathclyde, we believe that everyone - students, staff, and visitors - plays an 
important role in our community and we value their contribution. We expect all members of the 
Strathclyde community to treat the people they engage with at the University with kindness, 
dignity and respect and they should receive the same treatment in return. We also strive to 
ensure that Strathclyde is a place that is free from discrimination, bullying, harassment, 
victimisation and violence (including gender-based violence). You will find the definitions of these 
terms detailed in section 9 Appendix 1.  
The behaviours we expect are outlined in our Strathclyde Community Commitment. We want all 
those that are part of the University community to understand, respect and behave in line with 
this commitment to ensure that we all feel safe, secure and able to thrive at work or while 
studying. 
We recognise that there may be times when you feel that you’ve not been treated with kindness 
and respect. Or you might witness others experiencing some form of inappropriate behaviour. If 
this is the case, we want you to feel empowered and encouraged to call this out. We know that 
might not always feel possible but there are a range of ways that you can raise your concerns and 
there are services, inside and outside the University, that you can turn to for help. 
In this policy you’ll find out more about the ways in which you can resolve issues related to 
inappropriate behaviour either informally or formally. You can also read more about raising 
complaints, the procedures to follow and find information in relation to support services that can 
offer you help and advice. 
Please note, if this policy refers to additional guidance, FAQs, online forms, or training, these are 
accessible to University colleagues on our People Hub. 
2. Who is Covered by this Policy? 
This policy applies to all members of the Strathclyde Community. This includes: 
• University colleagues that have a contract of employment, an honorary appointment, are 
visiting the University or who are at Strathclyde on placement.

--- PAGE 3 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 2 
 
 
• All Undergraduate, Postgraduate Taught and Postgraduate Research students regardless 
of their mode and level of learning, or whether they are part-time or full-time. It also 
includes students that are visiting Strathclyde or those who are on placement from 
another organisation or institution. 
• Contractors working at the University who are employed by an external company. 
• Individuals who are working or acting on behalf of Strathclyde for example suppliers of 
goods and services. 
3. Raising an Issue of Inappropriate Behaviour 
If you feel that you’ve experienced or witnessed behaviour that does not align with this policy or 
our Community Commitment, you are able to raise any concerns or complaints either informally 
or formally. You will find out more information on the appropriate routes to resolves issues 
below. 
We will always treat any allegations or complaints as confidential. This may mean that if you 
make a complaint, it might not be possible to fully advise on the outcome of any investigation that 
may take place. 
We will always take matters seriously, particularly those that involve complaints of 
discrimination, bullying, harassment or victimisation and complaints will be investigated 
impartially. We also commit to treating all those involved with fairness and sensitivity. 
It is important that if you have any concerns around inappropriate behaviour(s), you raise them 
as early as possible. We recognise that this is not always possible to do, particularly in cases that 
may involve sexual misconduct. However, coming forward promptly to raise concerns can help 
with the investigation process because recollections of events may fade over time.

--- PAGE 4 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 3 
 
 
It is important to note that if you raise any form of complaint related to inappropriate behaviour, 
you will not suffer any disadvantage. We will not tolerate harassment or victimisation of anyone 
who has chosen to come forward and raise concerns or complaints.  This includes any threat, 
through words or conduct, to influence the learning of a student or career of a staff member.  
You will not be disciplined for raising a complaint, even if you are mistaken, provided the mistake 
was genuine. If it becomes clear that your complaint has been made with malicious intent or 
vexatiously, this will be viewed seriously with the likely outcome of disciplinary action.  
4. Resolving Issues Informally 
Whenever possible we would encourage matters to be addressed informally as quickly as 
possible and you are encouraged to consider informal action before progressing to formal action.  
If the matter is not resolved informally, this will not prevent you from raising a formal complaint 
at a later stage.  
It should be recognised that some instances of unacceptable behaviour are so serious that it is 
not appropriate for them to be resolved in an informal manner. You might also feel 
uncomfortable or unable to resolve the matter in an informal manner, for example because the 
person who has behaved unacceptably is in a senior position. 
4.1. Personal Action 
If you feel that you are being or have been harassed, bullied, discriminated against or victimised, 
you are encouraged to make it clear to the person(s) causing offence that this is the case. 
Sometimes, if you speak to the person causing offence at an early stage this might stop the 
behaviour. In some cases, the person(s) involved might not recognise that their behaviour is 
inappropriate, or it is being misinterpreted. Having a conversation with the person might be 
enough to end the behaviour and resolve any issues.  
There are different ways that you can take personal action. Examples that you might want to 
consider include: 
• Have a conversation or send a message, for example via email, explaining the behaviour 
that you find unacceptable and ask them to stop.

--- PAGE 5 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 4 
 
 
• Make a request to discuss the Dignity and Respect policy or the Community 
Commitment at a team meeting. This can help to ensure that all team members are aware 
of the expectations around behaviour and their responsibility to behave appropriately. 
We recognise that raising issues around inappropriate behaviour might be more difficult for some 
people than others. If you feel that you would benefit from advice or support, you might consider 
talking to: 
• A Dignity and Respect Adviser. We have a trained network of volunteer advisers that can 
offer support in relation to matters of inappropriate behaviour.  
• A trusted colleague or friend. 
• An HR Manager or a member of your HR team. 
• Your line manager or another senior manager for example your Head of Department or 
Professionals Services Director. 
• A trade union representative. 
• Another support contact or service as outlined in our Further Information and Support 
section. 
4.2. Mediation 
We have a trained network of mediators at the University who can help you to resolve conflict 
and matters related to the examples of inappropriate behaviour outlined in this policy. 
Mediation is a voluntary process where a neutral person helps those involved in the conflict to 
communicate and work through the issues with the aim of finding a solution. It's about moving 
forward rather than assigning blame. Given mediation is a voluntary process, you have a choice if 
you wish to participate or not. If you do agree to take part in mediation, we expect that you 
engage in the process in a positive and constructive way. 
It is important to note that mediation isn't suitable for more serious situations, for example 
where there is possible criminal activity, gender-based violence or those involved are particularly 
vulnerable.

--- PAGE 6 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 5 
 
 
If you're a staff member and interested in mediation you should contact a member of your HR 
Team in the first instance. Students who wish to explore mediation further can reach out to a    
Dignity and Respect Adviser or their Head of Department. They can also raise this through 
Report & Support, our online reporting facility to report or raise concerns about problematic 
behaviour.  
4.3. Informal Complaint 
If you don’t want or feel able to take personal action, or you have and the behaviour has not 
changed, you might wish to make an informal complaint. If you’re a student you might find it 
helpful to refer to the Complaints Handling Procedure – Guide for Complainants. This may be 
particularly helpful if you are complaining about a member of staff or a service provider. 
Informal complaints are normally made verbally, but you can put them in writing if you’d prefer. If 
you do put your complaint in writing, you should make it clear that you would like it to be 
progressed through the informal process. Just so you know, if your complaint raises concerns 
that seriously breach this policy (for example, threats or use of violence or unwanted sexual 
advances) your complaint may be dealt with under the formal complaint procedure immediately.  
An informal complaint should be made to a relevant person within your department or area. This 
is referred to as a Local Contact. If you are a member of staff, the Local Contact will normally be 
your line manager, or it might be the Head of Department or another senior colleague within 
your area. If you’re a student you might prefer to raise your complaint on Report & Support or 
your Local Contact might be one of the following: 
• A Module Leader 
• A Programme Director 
• Your Research Supervisor 
• A member of staff within Accommodation Services or Disability & Wellbeing Services 
• A StrathUnion representative  
Once you have raised your informal complaint the Local Contact should follow the steps 
outlined below.

--- PAGE 7 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 6 
 
 
• Review your complaint to make sure that the issue(s) you are raising fall under this policy 
and not an alternative policy or procedure. They will advise you if another policy or 
procedure is more appropriate. They will also let you know as early as possible if the 
complaint needs to follow a formal process. 
• Discuss the nature and circumstances of your complaint with you.  
• Advise the person(s) you are complaining about of the complaint that you have made. 
This may be done in your presence or it may be more appropriate to do this separately. 
They should also explore the nature and circumstances of the complaint with them. 
• Take notes of any meetings and store these according to relevant data protection 
principles. 
• Take a view on whether the complaint requires further action. If there are issues that 
need to be resolved, the Local Contact should discuss ways to address these with both 
parties (as appropriate). Examples might include attending relevant dignity & respect 
related training, participating in mediation or talking to a counsellor. 
• Ensure that all parties agree to the approach suggested to resolve the situation and agree 
an appropriate timescale. 
At any point in the informal process, you or the Local Contact can contact a member of the 
relevant HR team and/or Student Experience for guidance and support. 
We hope that at the end of an informal process your issues will be resolved. However, if you 
don’t feel that is the case, or the behaviour continues, you should speak to the Local Contact 
again. It might be appropriate to raise the matter as a formal complaint at this point. 
5. Resolving Issues Formally 
If you wish to raise a formal complaint related to matters of dignity and respect, the complaint 
will be heard under the appropriate procedure depending on who you are and who the person(s) 
you are complaining about. The table below sets out the appropriate procedure to follow.

--- PAGE 8 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 7 
 
 
You (Reporting Person) Person(s) Concern is With Relevant Procedure 
Student Student Student Discipline 
Procedure 
Student Member of Staff Complaints Handling 
Procedure 
Student Service Provider* Complaints Handling 
Procedure 
Member of Staff Student Student Discipline 
Procedure 
Member of Staff Member of Staff Grievance Procedure 
Member of Staff Service Provider Line manager or equivalent 
will engage with external 
provider and provide details 
of the complaint. 
 
*This includes contractors working at the University and individuals working or acting on our 
behalf including suppliers of goods and services. 
If you are a member of staff and wish to raise a formal complaint about a service provider, you 
should raise the complaint with your line manager or other appropriate manager initially. They 
should then explore the nature and circumstances of your complaint with you before engaging 
with the service provider. A copy of the complaint should be shared with the service provider 
and they should be asked to respond. Estates Services can support managers who receive 
complaints related to external contractors to identify the appropriate person to contact. Once a 
response is received the manager involved should take a view on what further action might be 
required or whether any further investigation is necessary. 
If a service provider or third party raises a complaint against a member of our staff or a student, 
a fact-finding exercise may take place to establish whether the matter should proceed under the 
staff or student disciplinary procedure or any other appropriate procedure or policy.

--- PAGE 9 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 8 
 
 
There will be occasions when the University will have to use discretion to identify the most 
appropriate route for dealing with your concerns. This will depend on the circumstances of the 
situation. For example, if you are making a complaint about a student and a staff member, it might 
be appropriate to deal with the matter under one single procedure, more than one procedure, 
or a hybrid of procedures.  Similarly, if there are overlapping procedures in relation to a similar 
matter, for example a complaint regarding bullying and harassment and research misconduct 
(which may be dealt with under the Research Code of Practice), then one procedure may be 
used to deal with all matters, or a hybrid approach may be taken. This can avoid the need for 
multiple investigations and help to resolve matters more efficiently. You will always be advised of 
which procedures are being followed and alerted to any changes that may need to take place. 
6. What Is Expected of You? 
At the University we are committed to ensuring that all members of the Strathclyde community 
are aware of this policy and that we continue to promote a culture where all members of the 
community are treated with courtesy and respect and in line with the Community Commitment. 
We also have expectations of community members as outlined below. 
If you are a member of staff, student of service provider you should: 
• Be familiar with this policy, the Strathclyde Community Commitment, and your 
responsibilities under these. 
• Participate in training which supports the implementation of this policy. 
• Behave in a positive manner at all times, to ensure the University is a community where 
all members are treated with courtesy and respect. 
• Not participate in, or condone, any acts that could be seen to be discrimination, 
harassment, bullying or victimisation. 
• Change your behaviour if you are made aware that you have behaved unacceptably in 
relation to this policy. 
• Feel able to take action if you witness inappropriate behaviour, such as logging your 
concerns on Report and Support 
If you are a line manager you should:

--- PAGE 10 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 9 
 
 
• Encourage a culture of dignity and respect within your team or area. 
• Address any incidents of discrimination, bullying, harassment or victimisation that you 
witness or observe even if no complaint is made. 
7. Further Information and Support 
If you feel that that you have been discriminated against, bullied, harassed or victimised or you 
have been accused of bullying, harassing and/or victimising others, there are a number of contacts 
and services that you can seek support and advice from. 
Departments and services within the University that you can contact for support, regardless of 
whether you are a member of staff or a student, include: 
• Disability and Wellbeing Service 
• Equality & Diversity Office 
• Dignity & Respect Advisers  
• Report & Support 
If you are a member of staff, you might also find the following University services or contacts 
helpful: 
• Human Resources 
• A relevant Trade Union representative 
We also have our free and independent Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) provider, who 
can offer confidential support. Visit our Wellbeing Hub for more information. 
If you are a student, you might also benefit from seeking support from: 
• Student Counselling 
• The Advice Hub at the Students Association 
• The University Chaplaincy 
• Your Adviser of Studies or Academic Counsellor 
There are also a range of external services that you may find helpful. These include: 
• Health and Safety Executive 
• Equality and Human Rights Commission

--- PAGE 11 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 10 
 
 
• Rape Crisis 
• Police 
 
If you have any queries about this policy, please talk to your manager or contact Human 
Resources. Further information and guidance can also be found on our People Hub. 
8. Policy Review 
This policy is reviewed by Human Resources on a regular basis.  
9. Appendix 1: Definitions 
This Appendix provides definitions of the terms “discrimination” “harassment”, “bullying” and 
“victimisation” to help staff and students to make informed judgements about whether particular 
behaviours may fall under the scope of this Policy. For a definition of “gender based violence”, 
please refer to the University’s Gender Based Violence Policy.  
Discrimination 
Discrimination occurs when a person is treated unfairly because they have one or more of the 
protected characteristics defined in the Equality Act 2010. 
The protected characteristics which are relevant are: 
• Age 
• Disability 
• Gender Reassignment 
• Marriage and Civil Partnership 
• Pregnancy and maternity 
• Race 
• Religion or Belief 
• Sex 
• Sexual Orientation 
The following forms of discrimination are forbidden under this policy and are also unlawful:

--- PAGE 12 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 11 
 
 
• Direct discrimination: this is treating someone less favourably because they have a 
protected characteristic. For example, rejecting a job or student applicant because of 
their religious views or because of their sexual orientation. 
• Indirect discrimination: a condition, criterion or practice that applies to everyone but 
negatively affects people with a particular protected characteristic more than others, and 
is not justified. For example, requiring a job to be done full-time rather than part-time 
would negatively affect women because they generally have greater childcare 
commitments than men. This requirement would be discriminatory unless it can be 
justified. 
• Disability discrimination: this includes direct and indirect discrimination, any 
unjustified, less favourable treatment because of the effects of a disability, and failure to 
make reasonable adjustments to lessen disadvantages caused by a disability. 
Harassment 
Harassment occurs when a person engages in unwanted conduct, potentially related to a relevant 
protected characteristic of another person, with the effect of demeaning, humiliating or 
intimidating them. It may also include unwanted conduct of a sexual nature. Harassment can also 
create a hostile, degrading or offensive environment for the person.  
It is important to note that harassment may be considered to have occurred even where there 
has been no intent. Members of the University community must be aware that the perception of 
the person raising a complaint is very important and what might be deemed to be acceptable 
behaviour by one person might not be acceptable to someone else.  
To define the types of behaviour that may be judged as acts of harassment, the key issue is 
whether the behaviour could reasonably be considered as having the effect defined above, even if 
others feel they would not be offended by the behaviour.  The perception of the person raising 
the complaint does not automatically mean that the complaint will be upheld. However, anyone 
responsible for managing or investigating the complaint must make an objective assessment as to 
whether the behaviour being complained about can reasonably be regarded as harassment. 
In some circumstances, where physical or extreme verbal or written violence has occurred, 
isolated incidents of unwanted behaviour may be considered to be harassment. In other 
situations, behaviour may be harassment where it is repeated or sustained.

--- PAGE 13 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 12 
 
 
Evidence of harassment can have consequences for employment, study and other contractual 
arrangements, but types of harassment may also be unlawful under the Equality Act 2010 and may 
even be a criminal offence. Individuals who are deemed to have harassed others may be 
personally named in legal complaints and may be liable to pay compensation to a successful 
claimant. 
It is possible for the harassment to occur in a targeted manner towards an individual or group on 
the grounds of: 
• Someone’s actual characteristics (e.g. a person may be harassed because they are 
disabled.) 
• Someone’s perceived characteristics (e.g. a person may be harassed because it is 
considered that they are disabled.) 
• Someone’s link to one of the personal characteristics via someone else (e.g. a person may 
be harassed because they have a partner or family member who is disabled.) 
It is possible however that harassment is not targeted at a particular individual or group of 
individuals but instead, within a particular team or group, there is a culture that allows offensive 
or stereotypical jokes. In these circumstances an individual can make a complaint on the basis 
that this culture creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment 
even if no-one within the team or group holds the particular characteristic(s) in question.  
Harassment may take place face to face, by writing or in written or electronic communications 
including, but not limited to, private communications, via social media such as Facebook, X or 
WhatsApp.  
Examples of the types of behaviour that may amount to harassment include: 
• Racist language or jokes or offensive comments about national origin. 
• Unwelcome sexual advances which may include touching, invasion of personal space or 
requests for sexual favours. 
• Comments which imply that a person’s gender impacts their ability to perform a task. 
• Excluding people from conversations, meetings or social events because of their sexual 
orientation. 
• Jokes about a person’s disability.

--- PAGE 14 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 13 
 
 
• Insensitivity to religious beliefs such as the use of sectarian language 
• Homophobic jokes. 
 
Victimisation 
Under this policy, victimisation involves treating someone less favourably than another because: 
• An individual has made a claim or complaint of discrimination, harassment or bullying 
under this policy or another relevant policy or procedure. 
• An individual has complained that the University’s equal opportunities policies have been 
breached in some way. 
• An individual has assisted someone else to make a claim, by providing evidence or some 
other form of support for the person. 
Victimisation is entirely unacceptable behaviour that can have a detrimental effect on a work and 
study environment and may lead to reluctance to report acts of harassment or discrimination. 
 Victimisation can have consequences for employment, study and other contractual 
arrangements, but some types of harassment may also be unlawful under the Equality Act 2010 
and may even be a criminal offence. Individuals who are found to have victimised others may be 
personally named in legal complaints and may be liable to pay compensation to a successful 
claimant. 
Victimisation may take place face to face, by writing or in written or electronic communications 
including, but not limited to, private communications, via social media such as Facebook, X or 
WhatsApp. Examples of the type of behaviour that may amount to victimisation are similar to 
those contained under the bullying and harassment sections. 
Bullying 
Bullying occurs when a person acts in an offensive, intimidating, malicious or insulting way which 
intentionally or unintentionally undermines, humiliates, insults or injures the recipient of the 
behaviour.  As with harassment, it is important to note that bullying may be found to have 
occurred even where there has been no intent.

--- PAGE 15 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 14 
 
 
Bullying is normally characterised by a pattern of behaviour. One-off minor issues of impatience, 
pre-occupation or lack of courtesy do not constitute bullying. In some circumstances, such as 
those where physical or extreme verbal violence occurs, isolated incidents of unwanted 
behaviour may be found to constitute bullying. 
Bullying should be recognised as different from management or supervisory responsibility. See 
’Acceptable Management Practice’ below for more information. 
 Bullying can have consequences for employment, study and other contractual arrangements, but 
some types of harassment may also be unlawful under the Equality Act 2010 and may even be a 
criminal offence. Individuals who are deemed to have harassed others may be personally named 
in legal complaints and may be liable to pay compensation to a successful claimant. 
 
Bullying may take place face to face, by writing or in written or electronic communications 
including, but not limited to, private communications, via social media such a Facebook, X or 
WhatsApp.  
Examples of the types of behaviour that may amount to bullying include: 
• Picking on people and unreasonably criticising their performance. 
• Unreasonable withdrawal of authority and responsibility from a person. 
• Imposing unrealistic objectives and deadlines or changing objectives without good 
reason. 
• Isolation or non-co-operation at work or in class; exclusions from meetings, seminars 
or work-related social events etc. 
• Aggressive behaviour or conduct. This can be physical, verbal or in writing. 
• Reacting to a minor issue in the same way as a major one. 
• Making a claim of power to influence any student or colleague’s academic career for 
better or worse, whether that claim is true or false.

--- PAGE 16 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Dignity & Respect: Policy 15 
 
 
Acceptable Management Practice 
“Discrimination” “bullying”, “harassment” and “victimisation” as defined above are not the same 
as an acceptably assertive management or supervision style. It is legitimate for a manager or 
supervisor to provide clear feedback and take action in relation to a member of staff or student’s 
conduct or performance, provided that this is done in a fair, consistent and reasonable way which 
is in line with existing University policies. In this case any action taken by a manager or supervisor 
to address performance or conduct concerns will not be considered as a breach of this policy. 
There may also be times where a manager or student supervisor makes a decision or issues an 
instruction which the member of staff or student does not agree with or considers unreasonable. 
This may not necessarily fall into the definition of “bullying”, “harassment” or “victimisation” and 
may best be dealt with under alternative dispute resolution procedures. In these situations, 
members of staff and students should be aware that even if they do not agree with the decision 
made or action taken it may be considered to be in the University’s best interests and therefore 
this needs to be balanced with any individual concerns.