--- PAGE 1 ---

Guidance for Mainstreaming Education for Sustainable 
Development across Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught 
Curricula 
 
1. Background  
 
The University of Strathclyde has committed to embedding Education for Sustainable 
Development (ESD) across all programme-level learning outcomes by June 2026. 
This move aligns with both the University’s socially progressive values and sector-
wide acknowledgement of the need to imbue graduates with the knowledge, skills, 
values and attributes necessary to tackle complex global sustainability challenges. 
The Quality Assurance Agency’s Subject Benchmark Statements are being revised 
to include the introduction of four cross-cutting themes: 
 
- Education for Sustainable Development 
- Equality, Diversity and Inclusion 
- Accessibility and the needs of disabled students 
- Employability, entrepreneurship and enterprise education 
 
The three dimensions of Sustainable Development – Society, Economy and 
Environment –bring together these four themes. The United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) present a useful framework for understanding the 
interconnectedness of Goals across the three dimensions of Sustainable 
Development. For example, ensuring Quality Education for all (SDG 4) can help 
promote Gender Equality (SDG 5) and Reduce Inequalities (SDG 10) more broadly. 
By embedding ESD in teaching, we can ensure our approach to employability, 
entrepreneurship and enterprise education takes into consideration related SDGs 
such as Responsible Consumption and Production (SDG 12). 
 
1a. What do we mean by ESD? 
 
Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) is a transformative approach to 
education, which seeks to imbue students with the knowledge, skills and 
competencies needed to fully address complex real-world sustainability challenges, 
create change and ensure no one is left behind. Unlike Education about Sustainable 
Development, which treats ‘Sustainable Development’ as a subject that students 
learn about ‘through extensive reading, listening, and memorising’ (Kreber 2009), 
Education for Sustainable Development is a transformational approach to learning 
that should empower students to become agents in enacting the systemic change 
required to meet the complex global sustainability challenges they will encounter 
throughout their personal, civic and professional lives. This focus on 
transformational, active learning enables students to develop the skills and 
competencies necessary to achieve this.  
 
1b. What do we mean by mainstreaming ESD? 
 
Mainstreaming ESD means actively integrating the principles and practices of ESD 
into all aspects of educational delivery associated with all existing and future

--- PAGE 2 ---

programmes at Strathclyde. Ensuring ESD is effectively ‘placed at the heart of our 
curricula’ (Vision 2025) and sustainable development made relevant to all 
Strathclyde students in line with our Vision 2025 commitment will require us to go 
beyond treating ESD as an adjunct, thematic topic.  
 
The focus of our ESD mainstreaming activity will be on Undergraduate and 
Postgraduate Taught programme level learning outcomes across all faculties, where 
we would look to ensure that there is a meaningful and prominent level of ESD 
embedded within every degree programme.  
 
1c. Overview of Guidance 
 
This guidance provides a proposed approach to mainstreaming ESD and aims to 
assist programme teams, Faculties and Departments in developing an Action Plan 
suited to their own disciplinary contexts. It will detail some initial steps to take in 
order to understand where ESD already sits within programmes and give an 
overview of pedagogical and assessment approaches that complement ESD, as well 
as the UNESCO key competencies for sustainability. Finally, the plan suggests ways 
of engaging the Student Voice in action plan development and links to training, 
support and resources available. 
 
The Guidance applies to a proposed structure whereby Action Plans are created at 
Department level with Faculty oversight.  
 
 
2. Initial Steps 
 
ESD will be present in curricula already, and the move to embedding ESD in 
programme learning outcomes should primarily represent a reframing of existing 
syllabi, rather than a complete overhaul. Some initial steps programme teams, 
Faculties and Departments can take to prepare for ESD mainstreaming are: 
 
2a. Curriculum Mapping 
 
The Centre for Sustainable Development has developed an ESD curriculum 
mapping tool that enables Faculties and Departments to see where ESD is present 
at module level and more broadly at programme level. The tool tracks what ESD and 
entrepreneurial competencies are developed in the module, which SDGs are 
addressed, and which teaching methods are employed. The tool also allows 
programme leaders and teams to see results on a dashboard in order to gain a 
broad oversight of ESD embeddedness.  
 
2b. Programme Review 
 
The mapping tool is therefore able to highlight where there are opportunities to 
include ESD in curricula and update curricula during Programme Review. This might 
include altering learning outcomes and rethinking assessment requirements.

--- PAGE 3 ---

2c. Developing a Programme ESD Action Plan 
 
Following the above, a Programme ESD Action Plan should be put in place. This 
should consider the following: 
 
- Who will be responsible for delivering the Action Plan?  
- Will a working group be created?  
- What would the working group’s membership be?  
- Could Departmental Champions be installed?  
- It is recommended that students are included in programme review – how 
will student voice be incorporated? 
- It is recommended that employers are included in programme review – 
how will employers' views be incorporated?  
- What are the key goals and focus areas of the Action Plan? 
- What considerations are specific to your Faculty? 
- What are the timelines? 
- How will progress be monitored, tracked and evaluated? 
- What support, training and resource is needed to deliver the Action Plan? 
 
 
3. Practical Guidance for Mainstreaming ESD 
 
3a. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)  
 
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
 (SDGs) provide a useful 
framework for understanding the interrelated nature of issues that impede 
Sustainable Development. The SDGs represent 17 challenges outlined by the UN as 
necessary to achieve by 2030 if we’re to have a sustainable future.  
  
The 17 goals can be broadly divided into 3 categories based on their core priorities: 
the economy (which includes goals focused on infrastructure, reducing inequality, 
and sustainable growth and consumption), society (including goals that seek to 
alleviate hunger and poverty, ensure quality education for all, clean energy access, 
and good health) and the biosphere (which includes goals that address life on land, 
life under water and climate change).   
   
The goals therefore represent a useful framework for engaging with Sustainable 
Development and setting the scene around what Sustainable Development is about, 
as well as identifying disciplinary links to Sustainable Development. 
 
3b. Competencies 
 
In order to face the complex challenges outlined by the SDGs, it is important that 
students are equipped with not only knowledge but also skills and competencies in 
sustainable development. This is a key difference between education about 
sustainable development and education for sustainable development: learners can’t 
be taught competencies; instead, they have to be given space in the curriculum to 
develop them.

--- PAGE 4 ---

The 8 key competencies for sustainability defined by UNESCO can be broadly 
categorised under 3 headings: Ways of Thinking, Ways of Being, and Ways of 
Doing, which is also referred to as the Head, Heart and Hands framework. This 
transformative approach to learning aims to enable critical reflection, relational 
knowing and active engagement. The table below outlines this competency 
framework. 
 
Competency A student who displays this competency can: 
Systems Thinking Competency 
-Recognise and understand 
relationships 
-Analyse complex systems 
-Consider how systems are embedded 
within different domains and scales 
-Deal with uncertainty 
Ways of 
thinking 
Anticipatory Competency 
(Future Thinking) 
-Understand and evaluate multiple 
outcomes 
-Create their own visions for the future 
-Apply the precautionary principle 
-Assess the consequences of actions 
-Deal with risks and changes  
Critical Thinking Competency 
-Question norms, practices and 
opinions 
-Reflect on one’s own values, 
perceptions and actions  
-Take a position in the sustainable 
development discourse 
Strategic Competency 
 - Develop and implement innovative 
actions that further sustainable 
development at the local level and 
further afield 
Ways of 
Practicing 
Collaboration Competency 
 - Learn from others (including peers, 
and other inside and outside of their 
institution) 
-Understand and respect the needs, 
perspectives and actions of others 
-Deal with conflicts in a group 
-Facilitate collaborative and 
participatory problem solving 
Integrated Problem-Solving 
Competency 
-Apply different problem-solving 
frameworks to complex sustainable 
development problems 
-Develop viable, inclusive, and 
equitable solutions 
-Utilise appropriate competencies to 
solve problems

--- PAGE 5 ---

Self Awareness Competency 
-Reflect on their own values, 
perceptions and actions 
-Reflect on their own role in the local 
community and in global society 
-Continually evaluate and further 
motivate their actions 
-Deal with their feelings and desires  Ways of 
Being 
Normative Competency 
 - Understand and reflect on the norms 
and values that underlie one’s actions 
- Negotiate sustainable development 
values, principles, goals and targets, in 
a context of conflicts of interest and 
trade-offs, uncertain knowledge and 
contradictions 
 
3c. Developing Learning Objectives for ESD 
 
The SDGs and the UNESCO competency framework present a useful starting point 
for developing learning objectives that meet disciplinary/degree requirements. 
Recontextualising existing learning objectives with these frameworks and the below 
guidance in mind will enable programme teams to see where ESD-related learning 
objectives are potentially already being met, and where they can be drawn out. In 
order to achieve new, ESD-focused learning objectives it may be necessary to 
employ new pedagogical approaches. 
 
Additional guidance on embedding ESD in learning objectives can be found here: 
 
- QAA and Advance HE’s Education for Sustainable Development Guidance
 
- Professional Standards Framework 
 
3d. Pedagogical Approaches and Assessment 
 
ESD mainstreaming requires a change in not only what we teach but how we teach, 
in order to enable students to develop their ESD competencies. Some suggested 
approaches include: 
 
- P roblem-based Learning (PBL): Students are given a discipline-
appropriate real-world sustainability problem to address, considering 
potential positive and negative outcomes 
- C ase studies: can facilitate discussion and analysis of a real-world 
problem and enable students to apply their skills and understanding 
- R eflection: requiring students to reflect on the skills they are developing 
aids them in understanding, evidencing and articulating their competencies 
- D ebate: can allow students to discuss controversial subjects and 
understand competing viewpoints, as well as trade-offs 
- C ompetency-based assessment: evaluates students on the practical 
application of their knowledge and demonstration of skills and 
understanding 
- C ollaborative working: enables students to gain experience of working with 
others and negotiating differences

--- PAGE 6 ---

- I nterdisciplinary learning: allows students to draw upon a range of subjects 
beyond their discipline and understand the need for a varied perspectives 
- Transdisciplinary learning: involves teaching not just across but between 
disciplines, requiring collaboration and cooperation 
 
 
4. Development, Resources and Support 
 
4a. Student Voice 
 
The student voice should be central to this work. There are several ways to engage 
students in Action Plan delivery: 
 
- Engage students in contributing to the development work through  internships, 
placements and special projects, including credit-bearing dissertation projects 
and paid internships such as Research Interns @ Strathclyde
 summer 
projects 
- Via Student-Staff Liaison Committees 
- Via the Module/Programme Representative structure 
- Student focus group 
- Discussions  with recent graduates 
 
Additional support for students can be found via SPARQS and Strath Union
. 
 
4b. Resources 
 
The following internal and external resources are available to assist in the 
development and implementation of Action Plans: 
 
- SD500: Introduction to Sustainable Development
, a training module 
developed by the Centre for Sustainable Development and available to all 
staff and students via Myplace 
- The Centre for Sustainable Development’s ESD Mapping Toolkit 
- The Sustainable Development Goals Learning Objectives 
- The CoDesignS ESD Toolkit, a framework that provides an easy to implement 
pedagogic method for embedding ESD in curriculum design using a co-design 
and co-creation approach. The Toolkit is based on UNESCO’s key 
competencies for sustainability and QAA and Advance HE’s ESD Guidance. 
- ESD Resources SharePoint site 
- The Engineering Professors Council’s Sustainability Toolkit 
- QAA and Advance HE’s Education for Sustainable Development Guidance 
- Professional Standards Framework 
- Discipline-specific guidance may also be available; for example, an increasing 
number of accrediting and professional bodies now require programmes to 
deliver ESD. 
 
 
References

--- PAGE 7 ---

Kreber, C., 2009b. Supporting Student Learning in the Context of Diversity, Complexity and Uncertainty. In: 
Kreber, eds. The University and its Disciplines: Teaching and learning within and beyond disciplinary boundaries. 
New York: Routledge, 19-30.