--- PAGE 1 ---

PROCEDURE AND 
GUIDELINES FOR 
EXTERNAL EXAMINERS 
OF TAUGHT 
PROGRAMMES 
 
Version 
No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.1 
 
 
Procedure and Guidelines for 
External Examiners of Taught 
Courses 
 
Education 
Enhancement 
 
 
Senate April 
2014 
 
 
September 
2014 
 
 
1.2 
 
Minor refresh 
 
Education 
Enhancement 
QAC and ESC 
October 2019 
October 2019 
 
1.3 Removing references to 
SharePoint, updating links 
and clarifying how reports are 
shared with students. 
Quality 
Enhancement 
and 
Assurance 
QAC March 
2024 
March 2024 
 Version 1.3 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
1 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. External Examiners are a key element of Strathclyde’s quality assurance and enhancement 
process. The University aims to ensure that high quality teaching, learning and assessment are 
maintained and further developed through the involvement of the External Examiners in the 
assessment process.   
2. The University’s External Examining system is aligned with the  UK Quality Code for Higher 
Education (issued in May 2018)  in terms of expectations around Standards and Quality 
Practices, and reflects advice and guidance around External Expertise.  The University’s 
programmes also take account of relevant national subject benchmarking information and the 
Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework. 
 
3. All taught first degrees and postgraduate programmes have one or more External Examiners.  
Appointments are approved by the Quality Assurance Committee (QAC) on behalf of Senate on 
the recommendation of the relevant Faculty Board of Study in accordance with Ordinance 3.4.3.  
 
4. External Examiners can be appointed at programme level or at subject  level.  In many cases, 
examiners who are appointed at programme  level also act at subject level for an appropriate 
number of modules. This two -level system was a response to the widespread introduction of 
modular programme provision; it deals with the difficulties that would otherwise present 
themselves where students may be taking modules from across more than one department or 
programme. 
 
5. A summary of the External Examining process at Strathclyde is attached as Annex 1. 
 
ROLES 
6. The following table sets out a list of roles/groups involved with the management of External 
Examining, and their responsibilities: 
 
Role Function Authority 
External 
Examiner 
An external discipline-specific expert 
appointed to provide an external 
perspective on the quality assurance 
processes in place for the delivery of 
programmes. 
Provides external perspective on 
academic and standards for 
discipline-specific programme 
activity. 
Education 
Enhancement 
The Directorate that oversees the 
management of the External Examining 
function at Strathclyde, specifically the 
Quality Enhancement and Assurance 
team. 
Co-ordinates the operational aspects 
of the External Examining 
nomination, appointment and 
reporting processes undertaken via 
the online external examiner 
reporting system. 
Programme 
Director 
Member of academic staff with overall 
responsibility for a module or 
programme  
Responsible for initiating 
nominations or extensions to 
appointments for External 
Examiners and ongoing relationship 
management during term of 
appointment

--- PAGE 3 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
2 
 
 
Head of 
Department / 
School  
Departmental-level leader tasked with 
considering suitability of External 
Examiners nominations in the first 
instance  
Responsible for Departmental- level 
endorsement of External Examiner 
nominations 
Executive Dean 
(or nominee) 
Faculty-level leader tasked with 
referring External Examiners 
nominations to QAC for approval 
Responsibility for Faculty-level 
endorsement of External Examiner 
nominations 
Quality 
Assurance 
Committee 
University-level committee with 
responsibility for oversight of all 
academic quality assurance matters  
Decision-making compliance 
committee, approving External 
Examiner appointments on behalf of 
Senate 
Departmental / 
Programme 
Administrators 
Administrative support staff based at 
departmental or programme team level  
Provide administrative support for 
programme teams and assist in 
providing documentation to External 
Examiners and processing annual 
fee payments and expenses 
 
7. External Examiners provide the University with an objective point of reference, and report annually 
on: 
 
a) whether the academic standards set by the University are being maintained and whether the 
University’s students are achieving the required standard; 
 
b) whether the assessment process measuring student achievement is rigorous, consistent and 
fair to the students and has been fairly conducted within the University’s regulations, policies 
and guidelines; 
 
c) the comparability of academic standards and student achievement with those in similar 
institutions with which they are familiar; 
 
d) whether the aims and objectives of the programme(s) are appropriate in terms of academic 
and professional subject matter, with reference as applicable to the UK Quality Code for Higher 
Education, subject benchmark statements, the qualifications framework and the requirements 
of professional and statutory bodies;   
 
e) whether the assessments enable learners to demonstrate the achievement of the intended 
Learning Outcomes and whether the curriculum remains current and supports students in the 
acquisition and development of key skills. 
 
8.  Through their activities, the External Examiners assist the University in: 
a) the comparison of academic standards across the awards and modules of the University  
curriculum; and  
 
b) the identification and dissemination of good practice. 
 
9. External Examiners are expected to be involved with assessment processes for all years of a 
programme. Faculties and Departments will consider with their External Examiners how this 
involvement might best be achieved.

--- PAGE 4 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
3 
 
 
10. The precise duties and responsibilities of External Examiners are a matter of agreement between 
the individual Programme Director or Head of Department/ School and the External Examiner(s) 
for each programme.  They may be asked to undertake any or all of the following tasks: 
 
a) Review programme specifications; 
 
b) Scrutinise programme materials and assessment procedures; 
 
c) Consider and comment on, as appropriate, proposals for the content of assessments to 
ensure that they are appropriate to the learning outcomes of the module to be assessed, that 
clear assessment criteria are provided and that assessments are of an appropriate standard; 
 
d) Moderate the achievement of students against the standards set by the University and/or 
professional and statutory bodies for all modules; 
 
e) Notify the University of any suspected cases of cheating, collusion or plagiarism in students’ 
work and assist in the investigation of suspected cases as necessary; 
 
f) Work as a member of a team of External Examiners and undertake the mentoring of new 
External Examiners as necessary; 
 
g) Attend Boards of Examiners to which they have been appointed to ensure that the University 
undertakes progression and recommendation of awards in accord with its agreed regulations 
and procedures; 
 
h) Ensure that the standard of any award which is recommended by the Board of Examiners of 
which they are a member  is comparable to the standard of similar awards in other UK 
institutions of which they have experience and is in line with the national context; 
 
i) Ensure that all students are treated in an equitable manner and in accordance with the 
University’s regulations and procedures; 
 
j) Certify by signing the final lists of marks and awards agreed by the Board of Examiners that 
the student assessment processes have been carried out in accordance with the programme 
assessment procedures and the conventions of the University; 
 
k) Be involved in oral examinations as necessary; 
 
l) Offer suggestions and advice on the academic development of a module, programme or 
subject area; 
 
m) Provide informative comment and recommendations on observed areas of good practice and 
innovation in relation to learning, teaching and assessment and opportunities to enhance the 
quality of the learning opportunities provided to students. 
 
11. All External Examiners will be required to submit a written annual report using the online 
submission form on the online external examiner system. 
 
12. The External Examiners for each taught programme should normally be ex -officio members of 
the Board of Examiners for that programme. 
 
13. The views and comments of External Examiners should be made known to the Boards of 
Examiners.  Where an External Examiner is not able to attend a meeting of a Board of Examiners,

--- PAGE 5 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
4 
 
 
the Head of Department/ School or Programme  Director should seek the views and comments 
from the External Examiner in advance and in writing.  
 
CRITERIA FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF EXTERNAL EXAMINERS 
14. External Examiner nominations should normally meet the following criteria:  The nominee should 
be either 
a) a senior member of the academic staff in the appropriate discipline of another higher 
education institution, defined by either rank of post held or in terms of standing, experience 
or scholarship; or 
 
b) a recognised authority in the appropriate discipline, employed outside higher education 
whose experience of appropriate academic standards can be demonstrated; or 
 
c) a recognised and experienced practitioner within industry or a professional or statutory body 
who has appropriate experience of an academic environment to enable them to fulfil the role 
adequately. 
 
15. The nominee should have knowledge and understanding of UK sector agreed reference points 
for the maintenance of academic standards and assurance and enhancement of quality and 
normally have recent external examining experience in the subject area concerned.  Where this 
is not the case, the recommendation should normally be supported by evidence of extensive 
internal examining experience at the appropriate level otherwise the proposed appointment 
should be made as part of an experienced team of External Examiners. 
 
16. An External Examiner shall not 
a) be a member of the University staff, nor have been employed by the University, nor have 
been a student of the University during the three year period immediately prior to 
appointment; 
 
b) be a member of staff at an institution with which the University has a collaborative partnership 
in the award in question, nor have been employed or engaged in any capacity in that 
institution during the three year period immediately prior to appointment;   
 
c) normally have any contact with the University or students of the University that might 
compromise their impartiality; where, because there are few experts in a particular subject 
area, such links are unavoidable, the potential conflict of interest must be declared to the 
Faculty, and QAC by the Head of Department/ School at the time of nomination; 
 
d) normally hold more than two other External Examiner appointments concurrently; 
 
e) be appointed under reciprocal arrangements between programmes/departments/faculties in 
the University and another institution – that is, External Examiners cannot be appointed from 
a subject area in an institution where a member of staff of the University of Strathclyde is 
currently an External Examiner; 
 
f) normally be appointed to a module/programme/subject area which already has an External 
Examiner from the same institution and department unless an exceptional case can be made.

--- PAGE 6 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
5 
 
 
IDENTIFICATION, NOMINATION AND APPOINTMENT OF EXTERNAL EXAMINERS 
 
17. T he number of External Examiners required is likely to vary between programmes according to 
the number of students, the level and nature of the programme, the complexity of assessed 
material being examined and other factors such as the inclusion of placements and other special 
activities. 
 
18. The Programme Director or the Head of Department/ School concerned is responsible for the 
identification of appropriate External Examiners in accordance with a recognised UK-wide set of 
criteria as outlined in the person specification recommended in the UKQCHE Chapter B7 and 
must ensure that: 
a) potential External Examiners are provided with information about the 
module/programme/subject for which they will have responsibility; and 
 
b) the proposal meets the criteria for appointment as specified by the University and the Faculty 
and that all the required supporting documentation is provided with the on -line nomination 
form. 
 
19. Advance HE (AHE) provides information and support on external examining via its 
Knowledge 
Hub including a Fundamentals of External Examining Handbook . In addition, Advance HE 
provides discipline specific support through a number of subject centres some of which provide 
targeted support for examining in their area and others have established a register of external 
examiners where vacant posts can be advertised and to which staff can add their details as an 
available examiner.    
 
20. A Joint Information Systems Committee discussion list (JISCmail) is available for people involved 
in supporting external examining within higher education institutions.  JISCmail is the UK’s 
National Academic Mailing List Service and provides a number of mailing lists to benefit learning, 
teaching and research communities.  The External Examiners list provides a forum for seeking 
appropriate staff to fill vacant external examiner positions, as well as more general discussion 
regarding the examining process.  
 
21. For quality assurance purposes, the Head of Department or School/Programme Director will ask 
the prospective External Examiner to provide a short (not more than 1 page) statement of their 
relevant experience in the subject area and of external examining. This statement should include 
the following information and be uploaded with the on-line nomination form:  
• qualifications;  
• area of academic expertise;  
• institutional position  
 
22. Information about contractual arrangements including payment of fees and expenses and detail 
of general responsibilities/duties in order to enable External Examiners to assess their willingness 
to act and their ability to perform their duties effectively is available on the External Examining 
System.  
23. The Programme Director or Head of Department/ School submits the nomination for the 
appointment of External Examiners via the online External Examining System to the Executive 
Dean of the Faculty using the form available online to be signed off prior to presentation to QAC 
for final approval.

--- PAGE 7 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
6 
 
 
24. Departments are encouraged to ensure that the nomination process is initiated in good time to 
ensure that appointments can be confirmed by 1 October start date. 
25. The Programme Director or Head of Department / School is responsible for ensuring that there 
is appropriate External Examiner cover for all awards offered. 
26. QAC, on the recommendation of the appropriate Executive Dean, approves the appointment of 
External Examiners for all taught degrees offered by the University.  Appointment is conditional 
on verification of eligibility to work in the UK in accordance with Home Office requirements. 
27. Following appointment, a DS-username and password will be issued to the External Examiner to 
enable them to access the University’s electronic systems including MyPlace. They are required 
to accept their appointment at the earliest opportunity and to familiarise themselves with the 
relevant documentation.  It is the responsibility of academic Departments/Schools to provide them 
with access to the appropriate MyPlace modules. 
28. The letter of appointment found on the External Examining S ystem makes clear to the External 
Examiner that remuneration is conditional upon completion of all duties including the timely 
submission to the University of the annual report.  
29. Following appointment, all External Examiners will be provided with briefing material as specified 
in Paragraphs 43-45.  Links to relevant University Policies, Procedures and Guidelines are listed 
under Paragraph 60. Information relating to the module/programme/subject to which the External 
Examiner has been appointed will be provided directly by the Department/ School. 
30. The Quality Enhancement and Assurance team within Education Enhancement is responsible for 
maintaining a central register of all External Examiner appointments. 
31. Where an External Examiner is appointed with no previous experience of the role and/or is 
appointed from outside higher education, the Faculty is responsible for ensuring that the External 
Examiner is supported into their role as appropriate. The Universit y will provide induction 
information via the External Examining System. 
32. Heads of Department and/or Programme  Directors must ensure that External Examiners have 
timely access to all information they require or request.  
 
PERIOD OF APPOINTMENT AND EXTENSIONS TO THE PERIOD OF OFFICE AND/OR REMIT 
33. External Examiners are appointed for two years in the first instance with, subject to the approval 
of QAC, the possibility of a further two-year extension.  Only in exceptional circumstances will an 
examiner’s period of appointment be extended beyond this four-year period (one year only for a 
maximum period of five years in total). 
 
34. With the agreement of the External Examiner and subject to the approval of QAC, an External 
Examiner’s appointment may be extended to cover additional modules/programmes/subjects to 
the end of their existing term of office. 
 
35. The Head of Department or Programme Director is responsible for the submission of nominations 
for extensions to the period of office and/or remit via the Sharepoint system and subsequent 
approval by the QAC.

--- PAGE 8 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
7 
 
 
36. An External Examiner cannot normally be reappointed within three years of a previous 
appointment.  The maximum number of reappointments normally permitted is one. 
 
37. The period of appointment will normally begin on 1 October and end on 30 September.  
Exceptionally, periods of appointment may begin on a different date, for example where for good 
reason it is necessary to replace an External Examiner part way through the session (e.g. in the 
case of illness or unexpected absence). 
 
38. A start date of 1 October enables the new appointees to familiarise themselves with the University 
and the module/programme/subject to which they have been appointed and to comment on draft 
assessment papers prior to assessments being undertaken and moderation of scripts being 
carried out. 
 
39. In the interests of transparency and to support the involvement of students in quality management 
processes, details including the name, position and institution of respective External Examiners 
will be made available within programme material provided to students.  However, it will be made 
clear to students that it is inappropriate for them to make direct contact with External Examiners, 
particularly regarding their individual performance in assessment, as other avenues are open to 
them. 
 
RESIGNATION OF OFFICE 
 
40. Where an External Examiner resigns from office prior to the expiry of the appointed term, the 
Department / School is responsible for obtaining written confirmation of the resignation, and for 
progressing the nomination of a replacement External Examiner .  A minimum notice period of 
three months is required. 
 
41. An External Examiner’s formal resignation should be accepted with no expectation of a 
resumption of duties.  A period of no less than three years must elapse before re-appointment 
can be considered.  Departments should attempt to utilise alternative External Examiners to 
provide cover, where appropriate, or initiate the nomination and approval process. 
 
42. Where a replacement External Examiner is not available at short notice, Departments / 
Schools should notify the Vice Dean Academic of  the Faculty, who will progress the matter 
with the Convenor of the Quality Assurance Committee and Education Enhancement. 
 
EARLY TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT 
 
43. The appointment of an External Examiner may be terminated by the University before the 
completion of the period of office.  Early termination may occur in the following circumstances: 
 
a) Serious illness, or other circumstances, that give cause for the University to decide that the 
External Examiner is unable to fulfil the duties of the post; 
 
b) Changes in the award structure which render the appointment no longer applicable; 
 
c) Non-fulfilment of External Examiner duties, including non receipt of the annual report  or 
incomplete annual report; 
 
d) Unprofessional conduct by the External Examiner;

--- PAGE 9 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
8 
 
 
e) Irretrievable breakdown of the relationship with the Programme  Team such as to 
disadvantage students on the module/programme/subject; 
 
f) A conflict of interest arises which cannot be resolved satisfactorily 
 
44. If an External Examiner fails to carry out agreed duties, the Head of Department / School may 
recommend to the Senate that the appointment be terminated, giving details of the grounds for 
any such recommendation.  A decision of QAC to discontinue the appointment of an External 
Examiner shall be final.  The decision will be reported to the appropriate Faculty Board of Study. 
 
INFORMATION PROVIDED TO EXTERNAL EXAMINERS 
 
45. The following Briefing Information is to be provided on acceptance of appointment.  General 
administration information available on the External Examining System provides links to the 
following: 
• Important Information for new External Examiner Appointments 
• The University’s Academic Policies and Procedures 
• Campus Location Map 
• Undertaken Duties form to be completed for fee payment 
• The University Calendar of Dates 
• Faculty and Professional Services Websites 
• External Links (QAA, SQA, Scottish Government, UKVI, Universities UK) 
• The University’s Regulatory Framework 
 
46. The following Local Information is to be provided by the Programme Director or Head of 
Department (or nominee) 
Policies/Procedures/Regulations 
• Boards of Examiners Operating Procedures 
• Programme Regulations 
• Programme Specifications 
• Module Descriptors 
• Student Handbook 
 
General Administration 
• Departmental Contact Information; 
• Instructions for the method of delivery and return of draft examination papers and 
assessment scripts; 
• Specific dates and times for assessment approval/submission/marking/Boards of 
Examiners etc; 
• Latest Annual Report from the previous External Examiner and Departmental response; 
• All External Examiners should be given clear and timely guidance from departments 
regarding their expectations for External Examiners for meeting with staff and students in 
accordance with accepted practice within respective Faculties; and  
• Where there is an expectation that External Examiners meet with staff and students, 
appropriate opportunities will be facilitated by departments and the purpose of the meetings 
articulated in advance.

--- PAGE 10 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
9 
 
 
47. The following Assessment Information is to be sent with Draft Examination Papers or with 
Scripts for Moderation by the Programme Director or Head of Department or Nominee (as 
appropriate to the nature of the assessment and the timing within the academic cycle) 
• Relevant marking schemes or model answers 
• Marking profiles and full records of moderation process 
• Information or guidance provided to students 
• Agreed sample size 
• First and second marker comments (where double marked) 
• Full mark schedules  
 
Note:  Where it is not possible to send full mark sheets at the time of moderation (for example in 
the case of large cohorts where scripts for moderation often having to be dispatched before all of 
the marking has been completed), full mark sheets should be submitted as soon as possible after 
the sample has been sent and before the External Examiner writes his or her annual report.  This 
information is important to give the External Examiner a feel for student performance in modul es 
and how representative the sample submitted for moderation is of the student body as a whole.   
 
 
EXTERNAL EXAMINER’S ANNUAL REPORT 
 
48. Monitoring and follow-up are an integral part of the quality assurance and enhancement process 
at Strathclyde. External Examiner reports are a key element of this process.  
 
49. External Examiners are asked to complete a report for each of the modules/programmes/subjects 
for which they act as External Examiner using the on-line report form available online . This 
requires External Examiners to make structured, evaluative comments on the quality of academic 
standards on each programme which will be scrutinised at a number of different levels within the 
University which seeks to assure itself that any appropriate follow-up action is taken.   
 
50. The completed report form and departmental response should be submitted by the deadlines 
below to ensure that appropriate quality assurance processes can be completed in good time.   
 
Reports Submission Deadline Response Deadline 
Undergraduate  31 October 19 December 
Postgraduate Taught 19 December 19 February 
 
51. Upon receipt of the External Examiner’s report, an automatic notification is sent to the relevant 
Vice-Dean and Programme /Departmental contact for action as necessary.  Reports are also 
made available to any partner institution.   
 
52. In accordance with the expectations of the UK Quality Code for Higher Education, t he Head of 
Department/Programme Director is required to respond to the comments made by the External 
Examiner in their report each year. The relevant Vice- Dean and the External Examiner will 
receive an automatic notification that the Departmental response to the report is available to view.  
Where any issue or recommendation arising from the report requires a period of further

--- PAGE 11 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
10 
 
 
discussion and consultation, the External Examiner can expect to be kept informed of 
developments by the Programme Director or Head of Department (or nominee).  
 
53. The Vice-Dean (Academic) reports any serious issues raised within these reports to the Senior 
Officer with responsibility for Learning and Teaching and alerts the appropriate Head of 
Department/Programme Director to his/her concerns. 
 
54. Annual summaries of External Examiner reports will be considered by the relevant Faculty 
Academic Committee.     
 
55. The main issues raised in the reports are also discussed by the QAC. This process allows for 
common issues of concern across the University to be highlighted, and also supports the 
dissemination of good practice identified in reports.   
 
56. Summaries of External Examiners’ reports will be made available to students as appropriate, with 
the sole exception of any confidential report made directly and separately to the Principal, 
reflecting the general principles of engaging students in quality management processes.  This 
will be facilitated via existing Student -Staff Liaison Committee mechanisms , Faculty Academic 
Committees or by listing on Myplace. 
 
57. In accordance with the UK Quality Code for HE, External Examiners have a right to raise any 
matter of serious concern with our Principal, if necessary by means of a separate confidential 
written report.  
 
58. Where an External Examiner has a serious concern relating to systemic failings with the 
academic standards of a programme or programmes and has exhausted all published applicable 
internal procedures, including the submission of a confidential report to Principal, they may invoke 
QAA's Concerns Scheme
 or inform the relevant professional, statutory or regulatory body.  
Recourse to the scheme will only take place in cases where internal mechanisms for following 
up concerns have been exhausted. The scheme's focus is explicitly on systemic failings in a 
higher education provider's management of standards or quality. Therefore, the scheme must not 
be used for one-off cases of ineffective practice, or to raise a personal grievance or issues relating 
to an External Examiner's appointment. 
 
PAYMENT OF FEES AND EXPENSES 
 
59. An Expenses Claim form (which can be found on the Finance Directorate website) should be sent 
to the Department/School who will process the claim.  Payment of External Examiners’ fees will 
only be processed once the annual report has been submitted.  The Undertaken Duties form 
should also be sent to the Department/School who will insert the fee and process via the 
University’s Supplementary Payment System. Please note that P60s are not routinely issued to 
External Examiners; however, these can be provided on request by the Finance Office. 
 
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION  
 
60. With effect from 1 January 2005, recorded information held by the University can be requested 
under Section 1(1) of the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002.  The University will not

--- PAGE 12 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
11 
 
 
publish individual External Examiner’s reports but will instead publish a summary of issues arising 
from reports (see paragraph 54). 
 
 
DATA PROTECTION 
 
61. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is an EU legal framework for data protection. 
The Regulation introduces greater protections for personal data and brings data protection law 
into the digital age. The GDPR introduces some new obligations for organisations that collect, 
use, share and store personal data. Further information can be found at 
https://www.strath.ac.uk/professionalservices/dataprotection/
 
 
 
RELEVANT LINKS 
 
62. Reference should be made to relevant University Academic Policies and Procedures
 as listed 
below: 
 
• University Awards Framework (as contained in the University Guidelines for Programme 
and Module Approval)  
• Assessment and Feedback Policy 
• Policy on Compensation Scheme 
• Policy on Honours Classifications and Other Award Rankings 
• Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught 
Courses 
• General and Course Regulations for Undergraduate and Postgraduate Degrees 
• Policy on Motivational Merit and Distinction 
• Policy on Moderation and Double Marking 
• Policy and Procedure for late Submission of Courework

--- PAGE 13 ---

Annex 1 
External Examining Process Chart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details submitted to 
Education Enhancement 
for approval by QAC on 
behalf of Senate 
External Examiner 
undertakes the 
duties assigned 
External Examiner submits online Annual Report 
commenting on academic standards, assessment 
and student performance etc. 
Payment to be generated via 
Supplementary Payment System 
Summary Reports 
drawn from System  
External Examiner 
nominated by Dept and 
approved by relevant Dean 
(or nominee)  
Standing item for Faculty 
Academic Committees 
On submission of report, automatic 
notification to relevant VDA and 
nominated Dept. contact is generated 
Overview of issues/ actions 
raised and responses to them 
QAC considers 
summary reports 
annually  
Identification of areas of good practice 
and opportunities for disseminating them 
Assured that 
issues/actions are being 
addressed by Faculties 
Identification of any 
recurring themes and 
institutional issues to be 
taken forward 
Included in Faculty 
Annual Report: 
Quality Assurance 
and Enhancement  
QAC gives assurance to Senate and to 
Court (which, as the Governing Body has 
overall responsibility for quality assurance) 
that robust quality assurance procedures 
are in place for issues relating to External 
Examiners 
Quality Audit Trail 
Education Enhancement responsible for maintaining online External Examiner System and supporting 
documentation including Guidelines and Procedures for Appointment, Standard Letters and Forms 
External Examining System 
hosts supporting 
documentation 
 
Dept/PD issues 
programme/subject specific 
information 
 
Education Enhancement in consultation with 
Faculty Offices / Departments 
Faculty Offices QAC Education Enhancement

--- PAGE 14 ---

Annex 2 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR NEW EXTERNAL EXAMINER APPOINTMENTS 
You will already have received confirmation from the University of your appointment as an External Examiner, 
subject to your compliance with the conditions outlined below*.  Thank you for your willingness to act in this 
capacity.  Your role as External Examiner is a key element of the University’s quality assurance and monitoring 
framework and your assistance is greatly valued. 
The University’s External Examining system is aligned with the UK Quality Code for Higher Education in terms 
of expectations around Standards and Quality Practices, and reflects advice and guidance around External 
Expertise. . The University’s programmes also take account of relevant national subject benchmark information 
and qualifications frameworks and it is against this background that we invite you to make your evaluation of 
the programme. The Head of Department/School or Programme Director will contact you directly, if they have 
not already done so, to explain more about the examining process for this programme and to provide you with 
programme regulations and/or handbooks and/or any other relevant information.  The Department will be your 
main channel of communication and you should feel free to contact them if you have queries or require 
additional information.  Key information about the University (including how to find us along with campus maps) 
and our quality assurance procedures is available on 
the University of Strathclyde’s External Examining System.1 The 
University’s Policy and Procedures on Assessment and Feedback  and Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners 
of Taught Programmes include information about the roles/activities of both External Examiners and Boards of 
Examiners.  They also include  information about data protection issues and other issues relating to student 
assessment that you may find helpful.  
All External Examiners are asked to return their annual report using the online External Examiner System report form 
(available on the University of Strathclyde’s External Examining System1) as soon as possible after the end of session 
meeting of the Board of Examiners and not later than 31 October (UG) or 19 December (PG) each year. The University 
IT Department will send log -in details for the SharePoint site directly to your email address in due course.   In 
accordance with the UK Quality Code for HE, you have  a right to raise any matter of serious concern with our 
Principal, if necessary by means of a separate confidential written report.  
*The University is under obligation to comply with the UK Border Agency regulations regarding the eligibility to work 
in the UK.  External Examiners that are paid a fee fall into this category.  The University is therefore legally required 
to copy and retain documentation that provides proof of a person’s Right to Work in the UK before work is offered 
in order to satisfy any audits in which the UK BA may require us to participate.   In order to provide the required 
evidence of   Eligibility to Work in the UK, you are required to present their documentation  to the relevant 
departmental administrator as soon as possible or ask your main employer to take a verified copy of your 
documentation and forward that to us or utilise the Post Office’s Document Verification Service.   
/cont

--- PAGE 15 ---

Procedure and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes  
 
1 
 
 
 
The University has implemented a new process for paying annual fees.   An Undertaken Duty claim must now be 
completed for the vast majority of adhoc  work carried out on behalf of the University by non -staff members for 
which, in the main, Eligibility to Work in the UK and HMRC regulations apply.  The Undertaken Duties, Fee and 
Expenses Claim forms are available from the Finance website at 
http://www.strath.ac.uk/finance/financialservices/payroll/undertakenduties/.  The University will meet reasonable 
expenses incurred and pay an annual fee (following receipt of the annual report).  
 
Please note that claims for payment through the Undertaken Duty route will only be processed if verified evidence of 
the right to work in the UK is recorded.  Further information on evidencing the Right to Work in the UK and Permitted 
Paid Engagements can be found on the Human Resources website, 
https://www.strath.ac.uk/professionalservices/hr/right2work/ 
If you have any queries, please contact external-examiners@strath.ac.uk 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
external-examiners@strath.ac.uk
  
on behalf of Catherine Milligan 
Director of Education Enhancement 
 
1 https://externalexaminers.strath.ac.uk/