--- PAGE 1 ---

POLICY AND 
PROCEDURES ON 
FITNESS TO PRACTISE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 Update to Fitness to 
Practice Policy and 
Procedures 
Quality 
Assurance 
Committee 
Senate June 2014 June 2014 
1.2 Update Quality 
Assurance 
Committee 
Senate January 
2017 
January 2017 
1.3 Update Quality 
Assurance 
Committee 
Senate November 
2019 
January 2020 
1.4 Minor revisions QEAT Senate May 2024 September 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263 
  29/05/2024 Version 1.4

--- PAGE 2 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
2 
 
 
 
Notes: In the policy, the holder of a designated role (such as University Secretary) is taken 
to include their nominee 
 
GENERAL 
 
1. Where a programme of study requires a student to undertake practical training in a 
quasi-professional role in relation to patients, children, clients, their family members or 
service users or where the qualification provides a direct licence to Practise 1, the 
University has a duty to ensure that the student is Fit to Practise. A student registered 
for such a programme may be subject to Fitness to Practise procedures. A student 
may also be subject to their own professional/regulating body’s Fitness to Practise 
criteria and procedures prior to graduation, following completion of the degree and 
before fully qualified registration is allowed. 
 
2. On commencement of their programme and prior to undertaking placement, a student 
shall be held responsible for making themselves acquainted with both the appropriate 
Code of Professional Conduct and the requirements of the relevant profession to be 
deemed Fit to Practise. If they are aware of any personal circumstances, which may 
relate to previous employment, programme of education or voluntary activity and which 
might affect / be relevant to their Practise, they are bound to inform the Programme 
Leader immediately, particularly where the issue is professional and will not be 
identified during the Disclosure process. 
 
3. Where a student is subject to disciplinary procedures as well as Fitness to Practise 
procedures the Fitness to Practise procedures shall normally be completed before the 
disciplinary procedures are initiated. However, it may be that disciplinary proceedings 
indicate that a student is not Fit to Practise, so there may be an overlap in the 
processes and the procedure on Fitness to Practise may be initiated at any stage if it 
is deemed that there are grounds to proceed. 
 
4. The question of whether a student is fit to practise is normally initiated by a Programme 
Leader, another colleague, a member of a profession with whom a student is on 
placement or a member of the public who has observed behaviour which they think 
merits consideration. Any allegations can be handled through the University’s 
Complaints Handling Procedure or, where it is believed to be serious enough and there 
are concerns that the student may not be fit to practise, by following this process and 
convening a Fitness to Practise Committee to consider the case and make a decision. 
Following initial investigation by an Investigating Officer, who will usually be the Head 
of School / Department (or nominee), a student may be referred to Fitness to Practise 
Committee. 
 
PROCEEDINGS BEFORE A FITNESS TO PRACTISE COMMITTEE 
 
5. A Fitness to Practise Committee shall deal with any conduct or issue which may render 
a student not Fit to Practise as a student on a programme leading to potential 
registration with a professional/regulating body.  Examples of breaches of Fitness to 
Practise are detailed in Appendix 1.  Such examples are illustrative only and shall in 
no way limit or restrict the jurisdiction of a Fitness to Practise Committee. 
 
1 Actively pursue or be engaged in (a particular profession or occupation)

--- PAGE 3 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
3 
 
 
 
 
6. A Fitness to Practise Committee shall also consider the impact of any health issue 
which may render a student not Fit to Practise. 
 
7. Where a student has been referred to a Fitness to Practise Committee, the student 
may be required to attend the University’s Disability and Wellbeing Service so that a 
report can be made on their Fitness to Practise based on professional advice available. 
 
8. The University shall comply with the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 by taking 
all reasonable steps, within available resources, to enable full participation by disabled 
students. Programmes leading to a professional role upon graduation require 
successful completion of all relevant academic and professional competencies, which 
are measured throughout the degree programme through assessment and placement. 
All students are required to undertake and pass these in order to gain the award of the 
degree. However, where a registered student has become not Fit to Practise on 
medical grounds, the student’s registration will be suspended and every effort will be 
made to offer an appropriate alternative programme of study.  Where no alternative 
programme of study can be found, the student will be required to withdraw fully from 
their studies. 
 
FITNESS TO PRACTISE COMMITTEE: CONSTITUTION 
 
9. The Fitness to Practise Committee shall normally be constituted by: 
(a) a senior member of academic professional staff (Convener); 
(b) a member of the StrathUnion Student Executive team of the Students’ 
Association; 
(c) two senior members of academic professional staff from the relevant subject 
area, one of whom is a member of the relevant professional body; 
(d) a member of academic professional staff from outwith the subject area/Faculty; 
(e) no more than two persons from outwith the University with a particular expertise 
or knowledge of the subject area (e.g. an academic from another institution or 
member of the profession concerned); 
(f) a senior member of Professional Services or legal representative nominated by 
the University Secretary, where deemed appropriate. 
(g) Other members may be co -opted where deemed appropriate in an advisory 
capacity. 
 
10. The University Secretary must be informed of the issues which have led to a student 
being referred to a Fitness to Practise Committee as a  matter of course. In this way 
any potential risk can be fully assessed, minimised and appropriate safeguards put in 
place. Any decision that the student who has been referred cannot remain a student of 
the University will be made with appropriate advice. 
 
11. Persons who have been involved, in any decision -making process arising from the 
same issues as those with which the Committee is dealing, shall be disqualified from 
membership of the Committee in respect of meetings at which that case is to be 
considered.

--- PAGE 4 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
4 
 
 
 
12. Five members (including the Convener and at least two members from the profession 
/ subject area) shall constitute a quorum. 
 
FITNESS TO PRACTISE COMMITTEE: GENERAL PROCEDURE 
 
13. It shall be the duty of the Programme Leader, in consultation with the Vice -Dean 
(Academic) and taking advice from the Faculty Manager with regard to process, to 
decide whether a student shall be referred to a Fitness to Practise Committee. 
 
14. If the Programme Leader, having undertaken such investigations as are necessary to 
allow an initial judgement on the matter to be made and having consulted with the Vice- 
Dean (Academic), come to the view that the student is not Fit to Practise (per 
paragraph 5 above), then they must refer the matter to the Fitness to Practise 
Committee. Included in that referral must be statement explaining the rationale behind 
the referral, in the format outlined in Appendix 2. 
 
15. Where a student is referred to a Fitness to Practise Committee, the Programme 
Leader, having consulted with all members of staff connected with the case if 
appropriate and without breaching confidentiality, shall provide written comments on 
the student’s c onduct and/or the student’s health explaining the reason there is 
concern as to the student’s Fitness to Practise. Factual information about the student’s 
professional development on their programme and any other relevant documentation, 
which may include statements from any witnesses, must also be provided. This must 
be clearly referenced and titled with pages numbered.  Emails should be included in 
chronological sequence. 
 
16. A student who is referred to a Fitness to Practise Committee shall be requested to 
attend in writing by the relevant Faculty Manager, including details of the referral and 
the date of the hearing.  At least 10 working days’ notice of the meeting of the 
Committee shall be given. The student shall be provided with the full paperwork being 
set before the Committee. 
 
17. Normally not more than 20 working days shall elapse between the date of formal 
notification from the relevant Faculty Manager of the details of the case against the 
student and the date set for the first meeting to consider the case.  If, following a 
request to attend a Committee meeting, the student indicates that they are unable to 
make the date and time proposed then the meeting shall be rescheduled once.  (The 
need to reschedule a meeting means that it may not be possible to meet the timescales 
stated above.) Any further rescheduling shall be at the sole discretion of the Convener. 
 
18. The student shall also be advised in writing that this is a University not a legal process; 
however, they may be accompanied by a person of their own choice including a legal 
representative, and that they are entitled to cite other individuals in support of their 
case who should provide written statements at least 5 working days prior to the date 
of the scheduled meeting. Any person accompanying the student to the meeting shall 
be entitled to address the Fitness to Practise Committee and may be asked questions 
by any Committee member. 
19. Any evidence which the student wishes to be considered by the Committee must be 
submitted to the relevant Faculty Manager at least 5 working days before the 
scheduled meeting.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
5 
 
 
 
 
20. The student must inform the Faculty Manager, at least 5 working days before the 
scheduled meeting, of the name of the accompanying person whom the student wishes 
to attend. 
 
21. If it is identified in the case submitted by the Investigating Officer (normally the 
Programme Leader) that it would be helpful to seek statements from individuals in 
support of the case, then these will be sought.  Any statement must be provided at 
least 5 working days prior to the meeting and the relevant person(s) may be invited to 
attend. The student shall be entitled to receive from the Faculty Manager the names 
of the individuals who have provided statements on behalf of the University and copies 
of the statements. 
 
22. If a student does not respond to a request to attend a Committee meeting, the 
Committee shall consider the case in the absence of the student. 
 
23. At the request of a student who does not wish to attend a Committee meeting, the 
student’s representative may attend on their behalf and to participate, where 
appropriate, in the part of the meeting where the Committee discuss the paperwork but 
not the private meeting of the Committee. 
 
24. The case against the student shall be presented to the Fitness to Practise Committee 
by the Investigating Officer (normally the Programme Leader) who will be invited to 
address the key issues in the case. 
 
25. The case will be considered on the written evidence provided prior to the meeting 
together with the statements made at the Committee meeting by the Investigating 
Officer, the student, any persons accompanying the student and any invited individuals 
present. 
 
26. After the Investigating Officer has presented the case, the student shall be invited to 
make a statement expressing their side of the case. Once both the Investigating Officer 
and the student have made their opening remarks, the whole case will be opened up 
for discussion by members of the Committee. 
 
27. Clarification may be sought by any member of the Fitness to Practise Committee, by 
the student, by the person (if any) accompanying the student, and by the Investigating 
Officer. 
 
28. Once the case has been fully discussed, the student, the person (if any) accompanying 
them and the Investigating Officer shall withdraw and the Committee will consider the 
evidence before it and determine whether the case that the student is not Fit to Practise 
has been made or not. 
 
29. The Committee shall invite the student, the accompanying person (if any) and the 
Investigating Officer to return to hear its decision delivered.  The decision, and any 
findings of fact, will be conveyed to the student in writing normally within 10 working 
days of the Committee reaching its decision.

--- PAGE 6 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
6 
 
 
 
30. It shall be competent for the Fitness to Practise Committee at any stage to adjourn, 
continue or postpone a hearing for a period not normally exceeding 20 working days. 
If this occurs, the student should be notified of the reasons and provided, where 
possible, with a revised timescale. 
 
POWERS OF A FITNESS TO PRACTISE COMMITTEE 
 
31. A student who is found by the Fitness to Practise Committee to be not Fit to Practise 
may be liable to one or more of the following outcomes: 
(a) reprimanded; 
(b) permitted to continue on the programme with appropriate advice and 
guidance; 
(c) permitted to continue on the programme under close supervision; 
(d) permitted to continue on the programme under such conditions or 
undertakings as considered appropriate; 
(e) suspended from attendance on the registered programme for a stipulated 
period; 
(f) withdrawn from the registered programme and / or required to transfer to a 
non-registered programme where available, subject to such a course of 
action being endorsed by the University Secretary and approval sought 
from the Principal on behalf of Senate. 
 
The above list of outcomes is not exhaustive and the University reserves the right to 
determine other outcomes it deems appropriate and proportionate. Any of the above 
outcomes may be suspended for a period of time on specified conditions.  Should a 
sanction period be imposed, then a review will be held at the end of that period, led by 
the Convener of the Fitness to Practise Committee, to confirm the next steps. 
 
32. If a student has been found by the Fitness to Practise Committee as Not Fit to Practise, 
the final outcome must be provided to an appropriate person within the relevant 
professional/regulatory body following conclusion of the proceedings (the final 
outcome includes the disposal of any subsequent appeals proceedings). Exceptionally, 
the Scottish Social Services Council (SSSC) is notified of the outcome of cases 
involving students who are student members of the SSSC regardless of a pending 
appeal. 
 
33. In cases where there is a concern which was other than that of their suitability for the 
specific programme, Disclosure Scotland may be informed where a student is required 
to complete a PVG form and be checked by this body.  This will be addressed on a 
case by case basis. 
 
APPEALS 
 
34. Any student against whom a finding of Not Fit to Practise has been made has the right 
to appeal against that decision and/ or the outcome determined by a Fitness to Practise 
Committee on one or more of the following grounds: 
(a) There was a procedural irregularity in the process undertaken that gives 
rise to a reasonable doubt as to whether the Investigating Officer or Fitness 
to Practise Committee would have reached the same decision had the 
irregularity not occurred;

--- PAGE 7 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
7 
 
 
 
(b) Substantive new evidence has come to light since the original hearing of 
the case which might have caused the Fitness to Practise Committee to 
reach a different conclusion. The evidence was not available, for good 
reason, at the time the case was considered; 
(c) Allegations of prejudice or bias on the part of the Investigating Officer or 
any of the members of the Fitness to Practise Committee; or 
(d) That the outcome determined is unduly harsh or exceeds the limit of 
authority given to the Fitness to Practise Committee. 
 
35. The letter of Appeal and supporting evidence must be lodged with the relevant Faculty 
Manager within 14 days of the written notification of the outcome decision to the 
student by the Fitness to Practise Committee and must state the grounds upon which 
the appeal is made. 
 
PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE FITNESS TO PRACTISE APPEALS BOARD 
 
36. The relevant Executive Dean (or their nominee) shall review the appeal and decide 
whether the appellant has submitted sufficient grounds for an appeal to be heard or 
rejected. 
 
37. If the relevant Executive Dean (or nominee) decides that the appellant has made an 
arguable case that one or more of the grounds of appeal exists then they shall refer 
the matter to a Fitness to Practise Appeals Board for final determination. 
 
FITNESS TO PRACTISE APPEALS BOARD: CONSTITUTION 
 
38. The Fitness to Practise Appeals Board shall normally be constituted by: 
(a) the Executive Dean of the relevant Faculty or nominee (Convener); 
(b) two members of academic professional staff from the relevant subject 
area, at least one of whom must be a member of the relevant 
professional body; 
(c) one member of academic professional staff from another subject area / 
Faculty; 
(d) The President of StrathUnion Students’ Association (or nominee); 
(e) an external member of the profession concerned; 
(f) a senior member of Professional Services or legal representative 
nominated by the University Secretary, where deemed appropriate. 
(g) Other members may be co -opted where deemed appropriate in an 
advisory capacity. 
 
39. Persons who have been involved, in any decision-making capacity, in a particular case 
at an earlier stage shall be disqualified from membership of the Fitness to Practise 
Appeals Board at the meeting at which that case is to be considered. 
 
40. Five members (including the Convener) shall constitute a quorum.

--- PAGE 8 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
8 
 
 
 
FITNESS TO PRACTISE APPEALS BOARD: GENERAL PROCEDURE 
 
41. The appellant shall be given at least 10 working days' notice in writing by the relevant 
Faculty Manager, of the time and place of the meeting of the Fitness to Practise 
Appeals Board and invited to attend. 
 
42. Normally not more than 20 working days shall elapse between the receipt of the Appeal 
and the date set for the meeting of the Appeals Board. If, following a request to attend 
an Appeals Board, an appellant indicates that they are unable to make the date and 
time proposed then the Appeals Board shall be rescheduled once.  (The need to 
reschedule a meeting means that it may not be possible to meet the timescales stated 
above.) Any further rescheduling shall be at the sole discretion of the Convener. 
 
43. Where the Fitness to Practise Appeals Board decides to hear the case de novo or to 
admit new evidence that was not available at the Fitness to Practise Committee 
meeting, the appellant shall be informed in writing by the relevant Faculty Manager that 
s/he has the right to call individuals and / or provide written statements in support of 
the case. 
 
44. The appellant shall also be advised that this is a University and not a legal process; 
however, they may be legally accompanied by a person of their choice, who may be a 
legal adviser, who will be allowed to address the Fitness to Practise Appeals Board. 
 
45. Any evidence including extenuating personal or medical circumstances not previously 
notified which the appellant wishes to be considered by the Fitness to Practise Appeals 
Board must be submitted to the relevant Faculty Manager at least 5 working days 
before the scheduled meeting. 
 
46. The appellant must inform the relevant Faculty Manager, at least 5 working days before 
the meeting of the Appeals Board, of the name of any individual who will be 
accompanying them and provide any supporting statements. 
 
47. The Fitness to Practise Appeals Board may request the attendance of additional 
individuals where it considers that their input would be of assistance. The appellant 
shall be entitled to receive from the Faculty Manager the names of the individuals 
whose attendance will be requested by the University. 
 
48. If, the appellant does not attend, the Appeals Board shall consider the case in the 
absence of the appellant. 
 
49. At the request of an appellant who is not able to attend a meeting, the appellant’s 
representative may attend on their behalf and to participate, where appropriate, in the 
initial Board discussions. 
 
50. At the hearing of an Appeal, the appellant shall be heard first.

--- PAGE 9 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
9 
 
 
 
51. The Convener of the Fitness to Practise Committee will be invited to attend in order to 
provide clarification on the Fitness to Practise Committee meeting report or make 
comments on the appeal. 
 
52. The Board will consider the original documentation presented at the Fitness to Practise 
Committee, the report from that meeting, the appeal and any relevant reports.  The 
appellant may, at the discretion of the Convener, be heard in reply. 
 
53. All persons present may be questioned by any member of the Fitness to Practise 
Appeals Board, by the appellant, by the individual accompanying the appellant, to seek 
clarity on points made during written submissions or evidence provided verbally at the 
meeting. 
 
54. The appellant and their representative, the Convener of the Fitness to Practise 
Committee and any individuals (if present) shall withdraw while the Fitness to Practise 
Appeals Board considers its decision. The appellant, their representative and the 
Convener of the Fitness to Practise Committee shall be invited to return to hear the 
outcome delivered. The decision, and any findings of fact, will be conveyed to the 
student in writing normally within 10 working days of the Board reaching its decision. 
 
55. It shall be competent for the Fitness to Practise Appeals Board at any stage to adjourn, 
continue or postpone a hearing for a period not normally exceeding 20 working days. 
If this occurs, the student should be notified of the reasons and provided, where 
possible, with a revised timescale. 
 
56. It shall be competent for the Fitness to Practise Appeals Board to set aside, vary or 
confirm the decision or outcome originally imposed by the Fitness to Practise 
Committee as follows: 
(a) Uphold the Appeal 
(b) Partially Uphold the Appeal 
(c) Not Uphold the Appeal 
 
57. The decision of the Fitness to Practise Appeals Board is final and there will be no 
further right of appeal within the University under this procedure. 
 
58. If a student is deemed not fit to practise by the Fitness to Practise Appeals Board, the 
final outcome must be provided to an appropriate person within the relevant  
professional/regulating body, following conclusion of the proceedings. The decision of 
the Fitness to Practise Appeals Board will be communicated to the relevant 
professional body and/or Disclosure Scotland which may invoke further action as 
appropriate.

--- PAGE 10 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
10 
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL REVIEW: Scottish Public Services Ombudsman (SPSO) 
 
59.  The Scottish Public Services Ombudsman  (SPSO) provides independent review of 
student complaints and appeals and is the final stage for complaints about public 
services in Scotland.  This includes complaints about Scottish universities.  If you 
remain dissatisfied with a university after its procedures for dealing with Fitness to 
Practise have been exhausted, you can ask the SPSO to look at your complaint. 
 
60. The SPSO cannot normally look at complaints: 
• where you have not exhausted the University’s Fitness to Practise processes 
or Complaints Handling Procedure; 
• more than 12 months after you became aware of the matter you want to 
complain about; or 
• that have been or are being considered in court. 
The SPSO’s contact details are: 
SPSO 
Bridgeside House 
99 McDonald Road 
Edinburgh 
EH7 4NS 
 
08003777330 
Freepost SPSO 
www.spso.org.uk 
 
FITNESS TO PRACTISE COMMITTEE AND APPEALS BOARD: RECORDS AND 
REPORTS 
 
61. The Fitness to Practise Committee and Appeals Board shall keep a record of its 
proceedings and the case documentation. The outcome report shall give the name of 
the student / appellant, the nature of the case and the outcome of the proceedings. 
 
62. An anonymised report shall also be submitted to the relevant Board of Study at their 
next meeting. Fitness to Practise cases will be reported and monitored through QAC 
to Senate. 
 
63. The records shall be retained by the University in a secure location in accordance with 
the applicable retention policy (normally 5 years) and, except as directed by the Head 
of the relevant Department/School, shall be available only to individuals or committees 
authorised to conduct investigations. 
 
64. The outcome report shall be made available to the appellant within 10 working days. 
 
65. Audio or video recording of proceedings will not be permitted. 
 
STUDENT PROGRESS ISSUES 
 
66. Where a student referred to a Fitness to Practise Committee is considered by the 
Programme Leader not to be a danger to the University community, the student may

--- PAGE 11 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
11 
 
 
 
continue to attend academic modules, except placements / experiential learning 
opportunities or have other contact with vulnerable individuals. The status of such 
students will be considered on a case by case basis. 
 
67. Where a registered student is allowed by the Fitness to Practise Committee to continue 
on their programme of study, or when their studies have been temporarily suspended, 
a student may be required to meet with the Fitness to Practise Committee, or a 
delegated representative, on further occasions in order to review their progress. 
 
68. A decision by an appropriate Board of Examiners that a student be required to withdraw 
due to academic failure should not cause the Fitness to Practise procedure to  be 
abandoned. Should the issue under investigation be reported following a period of 
placement but relate directly to that period of placement, any process which is in place 
to deal with such an issue should be completed prior to the Fitness to Practise 
Committee being set up. 
 
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION 
 
69. With effect from 1 January 2005, recorded information held by the University can be 
requested under Section 1(1) of the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002. 
 
DATA PROTECTION 
 
70. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is an EU legal framework for data 
protection. The Regulation introduces greater protections for personal data and 
brings data protection law into the digital age. The GDPR introduces some new 
obligations for organisations that collect, use, share and store personal data. 
Further information can be found at 
https://www.strath.ac.uk/professionalservices/dataprotection/

--- PAGE 12 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
12 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
Potential reasons for requiring consideration by a Fitness to Practise Committee (please 
note this list is not exhaustive): 
• Being declared not fit to be a member of another professional body; 
• Developing a condition that results in being physically or mentally unable or not fit to 
Practise; 
• Breach of ethics – for example, disclosure of personal information relating to a 
placement organisation, individual or colleague on social media sites or equivalent; 
• Being charged with a criminal offence and awaiting trial where the reputational risk to 
the University in allowing placement to continue would be significant; 
• Unprofessional conduct (drug taking, alcohol abuse); 
• Failure to reveal, at the point of application, admission or induction, prior conduct or 
findings covered by any of the points above (per questionnaire re Criminal 
Convictions at Registration) 
• Academic dishonesty which, in the view of those managing the student disciplinary 
process, would render the individual not fit to practise. This is likely to be the result 
of deliberate and dishonest behaviour in presenting the work of others as their own 
on normally more than one occasion indicating a sustained and fraudulent approach 
(please see the Student Discipline Procedures); 
• Inability to take on board and reflect on professional guidance in order to become a 
successful practitioner.

--- PAGE 13 ---

Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise 
13 
 
 
 
Appendix 2 
 
Format guidance for the Investigating Officer report to the Fitness to Practise Committee: 
 
• Heading: 
• Student name 
• Programme 
• Current status on programme including number of credits achieved 
• Details of the issue/incident 
• Details of any notification by the student to the programme team concerning the 
issue/incident and any discussion that has taken place thereof (correspondence 
should be in chronological order and pages numbered) 
• Impact of this on the professional competencies 
• Reputational issues 
• Duty of care to the student 
• Duty of care to service users 
• Proposed action 
• Signed by Programme Leader as Investigating Officer 
 
 
 
END