--- PAGE 1 ---

Approved by: Senate June 2011 
 
 
Policy and Code of Practice for Flexible and 
Distributed Learning (including e-learning)

--- PAGE 2 ---

Contents	
1.  INTRODUCTION 2  
2.  LIAISON WITH PROFESSIONAL AND STATUTORY BODIES (PSB) 2  
3.  FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS 2  
4.  DELIVERY 2  
5.  LEARNER SUPPORT 3  
6.  SUPPORT CONTRACTS FOR THE PROVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE 
AND/OR ACADEMIC SERVICES TO SUPPORT OFF-CAMPUS 
PROGRAMMES 4  
7.  ASSESSMENT OF STUDENTS 4  
8.  EXAMINATIONS OUTWITH THE CAMPUS 4

--- PAGE 3 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Code of Practice for Flexible & Distributed Learning       
Approved:  June 2011 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
I. The policy and procedures outlined here align with Section 2 of the QAA Code of 
Practice on Collaborative Provision and Flexible and Distributed Learning (FDL) .  
They are concerned with educational provision leading to an award, or to specific 
credit toward an award of the University delivered, supported and/or assessed 
through means which do not generally require the student to attend particular classes 
or events at particular times and particular locations. 
 
II. Proposals for courses delivered wholly or partly through FDL should be progressed 
through the University Procedure and Guidelines on Course and Class 
Approval.  Any existing courses where an element of FDL is proposed should follow 
the normal procedures for amendments to courses and classes. 
 
III. Where delivery of a course or class by FDL  involves collaboration with a partner the 
Policy and Code of Practice for Collaborative Provision Leading to Awards or 
Joint Awards of the University should be followed. 
 
IV. The University of Strathclyde retains sole authority for the award of certificates and 
transcripts relating to its courses deliv ered through flexible and distributed learning 
arrangements. 
 
V. The following additional considerations must be taken into account when designing 
courses or classes to be delivered by flexible or distributed learning routes. 
 
2. LIAISON WITH PROFESSIONAL  AND STATUTORY BODIES (PSB) 
 
i. Departments and Faculties should inform any professional, statutory or regulatory 
body which has approved, recognised or accredited a course for which significant 
Flexible and Distributed Learning (FDL) arrangements are developed after the course 
has been approved, recognised or accredited.  The status of the course in respect of 
PSB accreditation must be made clear to prospective students.   
 
3. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS 
 
ii. FDL arrangements must be fully cost ed (including overheads) and accounted for 
accurately and fully, and should be of clear benefit to the University.  A business 
case should be prepared including a risk matrix and adequate safeguards should be 
in place against financial or other irregularities which might compromise academic 
standards or the quality of learning opportunities. 
 
4. DELIVERY 
 
i. Documentation available to the student in advance of their programme of study 
should clearly set out  
 
i) full details of the programme of study and of the units or modules which make 
up that programme and the relationships between them; 
ii) the intended learning outcomes and teaching, learning and assessment 
methods of each unit or module; 
iii) a schedule for delivery of study materials;  and 
iv) a schedule of deadlines for form ative and summative assessment. 
 
ii. This information should be made available in a variety of formats.

--- PAGE 4 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Code of Practice for Flexible & Distributed Learning       
Approved:  June 2011 
 
iii. Delivery systems should be fit for purpose, be secure and reliable and have an 
appropriate availability and life expectancy.  They must be fully tested before their 
operational launch.  Delivery systems must include a means of confirming receipt by 
the student. 
 
iv. A risk assessment and contingency plans for delivery in the event of the failure of the 
main delivery system must be in place. 
 
v. Quality assurance arrangements for flexible and distributed learning must be at least 
as rigorous as those for the University’s internal provision. As far as possible they 
should accord with the Policies, and Procedures and Guidelines for learning, 
teaching and assessment as approved by Senate.  It is expected that all such 
provision will be reviewed at least every three years. 
 
5. LEARNER SUPPORT 
 
i. Departments must ensure that students on flexible and distributed learning courses 
receive adequate induction and preparation.  This should include the guidance for 
students on good academic practice and the avoidance of plagiarism and a 
statement explaining the University’s position on academic dishonesty.  Students 
should be asked to confirm acceptance of the terms of the statement. 
 
ii. Where provision is delivered in an e-learning environment, Departments should 
ensure that students receive adequate training in the skills needed to access 
materials and that they have access to competent technical support, whether locally 
or remotely. 
 
iii. Students should be fully informed at the beginning of their studies about the 
availability of academic, technical and pastoral support, including on-line support and 
opportunities for face-to-face meetings, and the anticipated response times to 
requests for information or help.   Students should be made aware of what support is 
available to them, in terms for example of academic advice, library and IT support 
and careers guidance.  Students should also be informed of what is provided by the 
University and what is made available through the support provider.  Students must 
be made aware of the University’s appeals, complaints and disciplinary procedures 
as these apply to them. 
 
iv. The expectations on students in terms of the nature and extent of autonomous, 
collaborative and supported aspects of learning, including their expected time 
commitment and responsibilities as learners in terms of responding to requests for 
information and participating in individual or group activities, should be clearly 
explained to prospective students.  Expectations in terms of required or optional 
attendance at residential classes or field trips should be fully explained at the 
beginning of the course. 
 
v. Students should have a named contact who can give them authoritative guidance on 
the progress of their studies and constructive feedback on academic performance.  
Students should also have regular opportunities for discussions with other learners. 
The rules and protocols for communication with other students and tutors should be 
clearly laid out at the start of the course. 
 
vi. Like full-time students of the University, students on flexible and distributed learning 
programmes should have regular opportunities to give feedback on the course and 
their learning experience.  Where the course or unit is supported by an external 
provider, responsibility for processing feedback from students should be clearly

--- PAGE 5 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Code of Practice for Flexible & Distributed Learning       
Approved:  June 2011 
 
identified as should the responsibility for informing students about the outcome of 
their feedback.  All students should be encouraged to contact 
telluswhatyouthink@strath.ac.uk
 if they have any issues they wish to raise with the 
University. 
 
6. SUPPORT CONTRACTS FOR THE PROVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE 
AND/OR ACADEMIC SERVICES TO SUPPORT OFF-CAMPUS 
PROGRAMMES 
 
i. The University sometimes enters into contract with institutions and agencies to 
supply administrative and/or academic services to support the University’s off-
campus programmes.  
 
ii. Support contracts for the University’s off-campus learning programmes are normally 
concerned primarily with recruitment of students, administration and provision of 
facilities.  They may also include minor roles, under the supervision of University 
staff, in connection with the use of local tutors or counsellors and in providing advice 
to students on the conduct and progress of their studies.    
 
iii. Any arrangement with another institution/agency for the supply of administrative 
and/or academic services to support the University’s off-campus programmes must 
be formalised in writing, approved by Senate and signed by the Principal (or 
nominee) and the responsible person in the collaborating agency.  Such 
arrangements are normally recognised through a Service Support Agreement along 
the lines set down in the template at 
https://moss.strath.ac.uk/internationalisation/Pages/InternationalPartnerships.aspx
 
and are subject to review at least every three years. 
 
7. ASSESSMENT OF STUDENTS 
 
i. Students should receive early notification of the methods, criteria and regulations for 
assessment, including the relative weighting of elements of the course where 
appropriate. 
 
ii. Adequate opportunities for timely formative assessment and appropriate feedback 
must be provided to students on flexible and distributed learning programmes. 
 
iii. The Department must ensure that there are secure and reliable means of transferring 
students’ work for assessment and that there is a means of proving or confirming 
both that the work is properly attributed to the student who produced it and that it has 
been safely received within any deadline.  Students must have clear instructions on 
the format and security measures they should adopt when forwarding work 
electronically or by mail, including the advisability of keeping a copy. 
 
iv. As with full-time students, every effort must be made to ensure that the work is the 
students’ own original work.  Departments are encouraged to make use of 
appropriate plagiarism detection software, such as Turnitin.  Students must be 
informed that the software is being used and given details of the Department’s policy 
in this regard. 
 
8. EXAMINATIONS OUTWITH THE CAMPUS 
 
i. In exceptional cases, a student who is based on the Strathclyde campus may be 
allowed to take an examination off campus with the approval of the Head of 
Department and the Head of Student Experience.

--- PAGE 6 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Code of Practice for Flexible & Distributed Learning       
Approved:  June 2011 
 
 
ii. On receipt of a request by a student to take an examination outwith the University, 
the Head of Department should consider the exceptional case put forward by the 
student to warrant permission to take the examination outwith the University.  For 
international students, the practice within the University has increasingly been to 
accept that students who have left the UK to return to their home country, and who 
would incur major costs if they had to travel to the UK for the resit of the exam only 
(and/or who might have problems in obtaining a visa in time for the resit), can be 
permitted to take the examination in their home country.  Other exceptional 
circumstances which could be taken into account in deciding whether to permit a 
student to take an examination outwith the University might be personal illness, 
illness in the immediate family or the death of a close family member. 
 
iii. If the Head of Department is satisfied that a robust case can be made to permit the 
student to take an examination outwith the University, a number of operational 
requirements have to be fulfilled to ensure compliance with the University’s quality 
assurance procedures and equity in treatment for all students: 
 
i) An appropriate venue for the exam needs to be identified; typically either at a local 
University or British Council office. 
 
ii) Appropriate invigilation must be organised as for similar examinations held in the UK. 
Invigilation must be independent, i.e. friends or family cannot carry out invigilation. 
 
iii) The examination must take place at exactly the same time as the UK equivalent even 
where this means that the student must sit the examination late at night or early in 
the morning. 
 
iv) Arrangements must be in place for the safe and confidential transportation and 
storage of the examination paper and examination script.  
 
v) The candidate must bear any necessary costs associated with taking the examination 
outwith the University of Strathclyde (such as transportation of the script and costs 
associated with invigilation). 
 
iv. Once the request has been assessed and the formal approval of the Head of 
Department obtained, the necessary arrangements may be made.  The formal 
request should then be forwarded to the Head of Student Experience. 
 
v. These arrangements do not require a formal service support contract.