--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORMAL ASSESSMENT PERIOD: 
GUIDANCE IN THE EVENT OF 
SIGNIFICANT, WIDESPREAD 
DISRUPTION 
 
 
      Version 3.0 
 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 University Guidance for 
the Formal Assessment 
Period in the Event of 
Industrial Action 
 
SEES/Convener of 
Quality Assurance 
Committee 
 
Industrial Action 
Planning Group 
 
April 2018 
 
1.1 Minor refresh of document Education 
Enhancement 
Industrial Action 
Planning Group 
 
November 2019 
1.2 Minor revisions to 
document 
Education 
Enhancement 
Industrial Action 
Planning Group 
 
February 2020 
2.1 Updated version to take 
into account disruption 
caused by Covid-19 
Education 
Enhancement 
Academic Business 
Continuity Planning 
Group 
April 2020 
3 Revisions to make the 
Guidance a standing 
document applicable to 
various types of disruption 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate April 2023

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS ....................................................................................................... 2 
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................... 3 
GUIDANCE FOR FACULTIES ..........................................................................................  3 
SETTING OF EXAMINATION PAPERS ............................................................................ 4 
Table 1 ........................................................................................................................................... 5 
SETTING ALTERNATIVE ASSESSMENTS ...................................................................... 7 
Table 2 ........................................................................................................................................... 8

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. This Guidance covers expectations relating to all duties within the Formal Assessment 
Period during periods of widespread, significant disruption, incorporating: 
 
a. Setting of examination papers: ensuring consistent practice for assessing impact 
and mitigating actions for forthcoming examinations; 
b. Replace some forms of assessment that cannot take place to enable Intended 
Learning Outcomes to be assessed; 
c. Managing appropriate alternative assessment activities in cases where disruption 
impacts on the ability to deliver scheduled teaching sessions and/or complete 
placement activities. 
 
2. It should be read alongside the Procedure for Markers & Boards of Examiners During 
Periods of Widespread, Significant Disruption. Paragraph 2 of that Procedure provides 
examples of widespread, significant disruption. 
 
GUIDANCE FOR FACULTIES 
3. In the event that widespread, significant disruption occurs during or leading up to the 
University’s Formal Assessment Period, faculties are asked to note the following guidance 
to support the successful completion of duties in support of examinations and other forms 
of assessment. 
 
4. It is expected that staff will take a pragmatic, supportive and sympathetic approach to 
managing student concerns around the assessment schedule, particularly in the event of 
extraordinary circumstances. 
 
5. The University's position is that every effort will be made to ensure all teaching, 
assessment and examination activities proceed as normal, with students being able to 
progress to the next stage of their programme, or, being awarded their degree, as 
appropriate. In the event of severe widespread, significant disruption, it may be necessary 
to take extraordinary steps to ensure students’ progression and make awards. 
 
6. Under the Ordinances of the University of Strathclyde, Ordinance 3.4 sets out the 
provisions for the operation of examiners and examinations within the University. Senate 
delegates authority for examinations and external examiners to Boards of Examiners, 
under the authority of the relevant Faculty Board of Study, within the parameters for 
examinations and assessment set out within the University’s General Academic 
Regulations for each level of study. 
 
7. In the event of disruption, it is expected that these duties will be conducted to ensure 
consistency of practice and experience for our students, to minimise concern and to 
support appropriate mitigating actions under the auspices of the academic governance 
processes of the University. 
 
8. As outlined in the Procedure for Markers and Boards of Examiners During Periods of 
Widespread, Significant Disruption, Examination Boards, at the direction of Senate, have 
the discretion to exercise academic judgement and to award a result that they deem best

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
reflects the student’s academic performance, based upon the evidence and performance 
profile available to them. Boards of Examiners will be instructed by Senate to consider the 
impact of disruption on students and to take this into consideration when making decisions. 
 
9. In addition to the aforementioned guidance for Boards of Examiners, the Personal 
Circumstances and Academic Appeals Procedure can also be highlighted to students 
across all Faculties along with clarification that it is their responsibility to record on 
Pegasus any personal circumstances as soon as they are aware of these circumstances, 
in line with Section 2.2 of the Personal Circumstances and Academic Appeals Procedure, 
in order for them to be considered by a Board of Examiners. It is important to note 
however, that the Personal Circumstances Procedure may not be possible to enforce 
during extraordinary periods of disruption. To properly inform Boards of Examiners 
decisions, in the absence of submitted personal circumstances, a detailed note of available 
information on the effects of disruption on teaching schedules and the marking of 
examinations or assessment should be made available.  
 
SETTING OF EXAMINATION PAPERS  
10. Staff acting in the capacity of the Programme Leader should, with agreement within the 
Department/School, consider the level of mitigation to be applied to the setting of 
examination papers for topics impacted by disruption. 
 
11. A sliding scale of proposed mitigation is provided to support consistency in practice across 
the University. This includes the definition of the appropriate threshold(s) for removing 
questions from examinations, depending upon the level of impact that disruption has on 
individual modules and topics. Table 1 provides an overview of proposed mitigations.

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
 
Table 1 
 
Circumstance Proposed Mitigation Action 
Session 
cancelled; 
nothing 
delivered to 
students or 
insufficient 
materials 
and/or limited 
support 
provided. 
Associated topic(s) cannot 
be examined or assessed 
Topics missed will not be 
examined during the Formal 
Assessment Period. 
 
 
Consideration should be given to 
whether the Intended Learning 
Outcomes for the module have 
already been met through 
previous assessments, in which 
case it may be appropriate to 
remove this examination from the 
assessment schedule. 
 
Where topics have been missed, 
materials and support could be 
made available at a later date and 
consolidated during the next 
Development Week activities to 
ensure that pre-requisites for 
continuing sessions are 
covered. 
Session cancelled 
with appropriate 
materials and 
adequate support 
provided. 
Associated topic(s) can be 
examined or assessed and 
results would be looked at 
sensitively by Boards of 
Examiners. 
Module Leaders, in conjunction with 
Programme Leaders and Directors 
of Teaching, are empowered to 
adjust examination papers 
independently (i.e. without prior 
consultation with External 
Examiners) at the direction of 
Senate. This process will ensure that 
any amendments have been 
reviewed to ascertain whether 
thresholds have been met before 
examination papers and assessment 
submissions are adjusted. 
Teaching 
sessions take 
place, however a 
significant 
number of 
students are 
unable to attend. 
Consideration given to how 
this will impact examination 
papers. 
Content could be captured through 
video-based events and made 
available to students. Online 
resource support and directed 
reading can also be made 
available to students. 
 
Examination questions could be 
added to papers to give students 
more choice and ensure they do not 
have to answer questions on 
missed materials 
 
Additional lectures/tutorials could be 
scheduled for when students return

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
The formal, on 
campus, 
examination diet 
cannot take place 
due to disruption, 
for all or some 
students 
Consideration given to 
alternative methods of 
delivery of examinations, or 
alternative assessments 
 
The University may take a 
decision to entirely cancel 
examinations for some 
students, i.e. first and 
second year undergraduate 
students where 
programmes do not include 
examinations required for 
professional accreditation 
Examinations to move from closed 
book to open book and take place 
online (important to be assured that 
all students have access to 
hardware and broadband). 
 
Alternative coursework assignments 
could be set to replace 
examinations. 
 
Consider whether other 
assessments already undertaken 
earlier in the module, or 
coursework that is due in on topics 
already covered, can be re- 
weighted to cover the module’s 
learning outcomes. 
 
12. In cases where it is decided by the Senate that progression to the next year of studies can 
take place without final examination, excluding those programmes that require 
examinations for professional accreditation, communications to the students on this matter 
will take place at a University-level. 
 
13. Programme Leaders are responsible for overseeing the process and communicating the 
decision on the removal of content from an examination in mitigation to students. 
Communications should be copied to Head of Department/School, Vice-Dean (Academic) 
and the relevant Executive Dean(s) to ensure appropriate Faculty oversight. 
 
14. In cases where an academic member of staff has been absent from scheduled teaching 
sessions (lectures, seminars, tutorials etc) due to disruption, or where significant numbers 
of students have been unable to attend, Departments/Schools/Faculty Offices should give 
careful thought to the impact on students in relation to coursework and/or examinations, 
(including vivas), both formal and informal. For example, if an examination question has 
been set that reflects content within a missed lecture, it may be necessary to instruct 
students not to attempt this examination question or replace with an alternative question. 
 
15. Where hall-based examinations are possible, students should be informed, in writing, and 
ahead of the examination, of any questions they should not attempt. The examination 
invigilator should also provide this information to students prior to the examination starting 
on the day. In cases where it is not possible to identify questions that should not be 
attempted in time to inform students, Boards of Examiners should receive details of the 
impact of disruption on examinations and ensure this is considered when reaching their 
decisions. 
 
16. In relation to missed in-session tests or other types of informal examinations, it may be 
appropriate to consider whether other assessments within the module could be more 
heavily weighted to compensate for missed informal examinations. When considering any 
examination adjustments, it is important to reflect on the module’s Intended Learning 
Outcomes, to ensure that these will be still be met. Proposals for re-weighting assessment 
components should be submitted to Faculty Academic Committee, following Department 
scrutiny, for approval.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
 
 
17. Students should be advised that Boards of Examiners will be made aware of all scheduled 
sessions impacted by disruption and the mitigation actions taken. 
 
18. Student Lifecycle Services should be informed of changes to examination scripts by 
Departments/Schools within the published deadlines. 
 
SETTING ALTERNATIVE ASSESSMENTS 
19. When considering alternative assessment arrangements in times of disruption and as 
directed by Senate, the broad principles established below should be followed. 
 
20. In amending assessment activities, staff should do all that is possible to maintain academic 
standards and ensure alignment with the learning outcomes that have been delivered in a 
module. Staff should be aware that alternative online assessments may not be accessible 
to every student and altered assessments for individuals may exceptionally be required. 
 
21. Programme teams should discuss locally and agree all assessment amendments at 
modular level. 
 
22. All assessment alterations should be recorded in detail, by the Department/School, to 
ensure Programme and Faculty oversight. These records will support decision making by 
Boards of Examiners and Appeals Committees. 
 
23. Decisions regarding alternative assessments will be shared with VDAs for oversight but not 
for approval as this can be taken at a local level. In the case of uncertainty, advice can be 
sought from the VDAs. 
 
24. In making amendments to assessment(s) staff should try to stay as close as possible to 
the original assessment brief so as to manage student expectations and staff and student 
workloads. 
 
25. Where possible, the original submission dates for coursework and published examination 
dates should be maintained. 
 
26. Alterations to assessment activities should not increase the marking load for staff nor 
increase student effort (for example, word limits should not be increased). 
 
27. There is no expectation that staff provide individual feedback on assessment activities that 
were originally designed as closed-book exams, where students would normally receive 
whole cohort general feedback. 
 
28. In communications to students about assessments, staff should remind students of 
expectations regarding academic honesty and integrity. 
 
29. Staff will be sympathetic to student requests for extensions for the submission of 
coursework and projects. Extensions will not be given for online examinations, however 
students may submit personal circumstances for missed examinations. 
 
30. Table 2 provides an overview of potential assessment alternatives.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
 
Table 2 
 
Existing Assessment 
 
Reasonable Alternative 
Examination Online Examination 
 Open book exam from home 
Oral exam Skype, Zoom or equivalent platform 
Languages reading, speaking, listening 
exams 
Skype, Zoom or equivalent platform 
Viva Skype, Zoom or equivalent platform1 
Presentation - group or individual Submit materials for assessment 
 Skype, Zoom or equivalent platform 
discussion 
 Recorded voice over for a PowerPoint 
 Upload their presentations with a 
transcript 
 Recorded video presentations 
Dissertation Submit online 
 Post hard copy 
Online test, multiple choice, quiz Open book online test 
Tests with symbolic notation Photo/scan and submitted online 
Assignment, Case Study, Report, Review, 
critical review 
Submitted online 
Credit-bearing Placement Suspended, in consultation with 
professional bodies 
Group Work, Project Submit materials for assessment 
 Interactive online unless it involves a 
physical object for classroom use for 
example 
Portfolio (weekly diary, reflective log, 
screenplay) 
Online 
Logic Test Online 
Resources preparation Online where possible. Where using 
specialist software not 
available through Pegasus, mode of 
assessment may be suspended. 
Tradeshow/showcase/demo Online, where students are able to 
demonstrate portable systems 
(partially) developed throughout the 
academic year, prior to disruption. 
 
                                                           
1 See the University’s Guidance on the Operation of Hybrid or Virtual Oral Examinations