--- PAGE 1 ---

Approved by: Senate December 2005 
University Framework for Professional 
Doctorates

--- PAGE 2 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Framework for Professional Doctorates 
Approved:  December 2005 
Updated:  October 2009 
1 
FRAMEWORK FOR PROFESSIONAL DOCTORATES 
 
Introduction 
 
The Professional Doctorates Task Group was established by the Graduate Council ‘to compare the 
frameworks of and regulations for existing professional doctorates in the University with a view to 
establishing an approved University framewor k and General Regulations for professional 
doctorates which could be used in the development of new programmes’.  Its membership was 
drawn from those with an interest in the professi onal doctorates currently offered by the University, 
including current students on these degree courses, and/or in developing new professional 
doctorates.  Professor Ingrid Lundt (previously of the Institute of Education, now of Oxford 
University) joined the group as an external member.  A full list of members is attached as Appendix 
1.   
 
Members of the Task Group agreed that it was essential that the Professional Doctorates have 
parity of esteem and equal standing to the PhD, that they be research programmes and not taught 
courses and that high level research training should be a lynch pin of the programmes.  In addition 
they agreed that the framework would have to allow for a degree of flexibility in order to 
accommodate the varying requirements of the professional bodies across the disciplines 
concerned and that it should allow for appropriate exit points 
 
Rationale 
 
This Framework provides a description of the Professional Doctorate and a set of criteria that 
Faculties are required to address in developing new awards of this kind.  The Framework takes 
account of developments in policy for, and delivery and assessment of, doctoral programmes, 
including the PhD as well as Professional Doctorates.  The developments include the incorporation 
of directed study and assessed work on research methods and philosophy in most doctoral 
programmes. 
 
The Framework has not been developed for the purposes of recognition or accreditation, but is 
intended to be consistent with the QAA Code of Practice:  Section 1 and the ESRC’s Postgraduate 
Training Guidelines for the recognition of Professional Doctorates and to take account of the UK 
Quality Assurance Agency for the Higher Education’s framework for qualifications in England, 
Wales and Northern Ireland and the Introduction to the Scottish Credit and Qualification 
Framework. 
 
What is the Professional Doctorate? 
 
The Professional Doctorate is a programme equal in status and rigour to all other doctorates.  It 
shares the same position as these qualifications in the QAA Frameworks and should be seen as 
such by others including the relevant Research Councils.  Like other doctoral programmes, it 
includes both preparatory research and directed study and assessed work which is designed to 
support the subsequent period of independent supervised research.  Its primary mode of 
assessment is examination of the thesis.   
 
As with the PhD, the Professional Doctorate has an emphasis on original thought, theorisation and 
empirical research and the mastery of a substantial, leading edge body of knowledge. To be 
awarded a doctorate all students will need to demonstrate ‘the creation and interpretation of new 
knowledge through original research or other advanced scholarship, of a quality to satisfy peer 
review, extend the forefront of the discipline, and merit publication’ (QAA Frameworks for higher 
education qualifications). 
 
However, the Professional Doctorate has a dual purpose.  It also recognises and explicitly 
embraces professional development as an integral component of the programme.  Both the

--- PAGE 3 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Framework for Professional Doctorates 
Approved:  December 2005 
Updated:  October 2009 
2 
professional dimension and theoretical/empirical research require critical engagement with 
professional practice in order to enable the participant to achieve a greater level of effectiveness as 
a professional practitioner. 
 
The Professional Doctorate is concerned with researching issues which arise from the world of 
professional practice through the critical review and systematic application of appropriate theories 
and research to professional and industry based practice.  It seeks not only to increase knowledge 
about practice, but also to inform and impact on practice, to improve professional competence and 
professional thinking.  It needs to relate to the relevant professional context and to involve critical 
reflection on the development of the profession.  
 
Target Market and Admissions Requirements 
 
Candidates will normally be professional practitioners, well qualified in their chosen field. They will 
normally already have gained a good first degree or equivalent qualification recognised for these 
purposes by the University, and will normally have a level of professional experience appropriate to 
the research being undertaken. 
 
In order to provide a setting for their research, candidates should have the ability and opportunity 
to carry out detailed research in an appropriate professional context.  Access to and support from 
appropriate organisations are considered essential in terms of initial selection of candidates and 
the expectation is that they should be available for the duration of the programme. 
 
Evidence of language proficiency will be expected in respect of candidates for whom English is not 
the first language (IELTS, TOEFL or comparable).  The normal expectation will be that the thesis 
will be written in English.  If, however, the language of study and/or assessment is other than 
English, the supervisory and assessment team must have the relevant language ability. 
 
As part of the admission process, prospective candidates may be expected to develop an initial 
proposal for subsequent investigation, with input from the Department as appropriate.  Admissions 
Officers should look for evidence of sufficiency of problem definition, initial research, personal 
capability and appropriate professional experience. 
 
Faculties and Departments must ensure that they are able to provide the appropriate supervision in 
relation to the focus/research interest of specific staff prior to accepting a candidate for entry. 
 
Structure  
 
Programmes should be clearly structured and should provide appropriate milestones or stages.  
These points should be consistent with any interim or exit awards that are available prior to, or in 
place of, the successful completion of the doctorate.  Such awards should be defined and justified 
within the terms of the Professional Doctorate programme. 
 
Professional Doctorates should include directed study on research methodology and techniques 
and, if appropriate, on areas of specialist knowledge.  Directed study on research methodology and 
techniques must be at doctoral level.  For areas of specialist knowledge, relevant taught classes at 
Masters level may be included, on an individual need basis, particularly in the early stage of a 
programme.  These classes should comply in aim, content and standard, with those undertaken by 
PhD students and with Research Council guidelines.  However, any assessment arising from such 
classes would not normally be expected to form part of the final assessment for the Professional 
Doctorate but will determine whether or not the candidate can proceed with the doctorate.

--- PAGE 4 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Framework for Professional Doctorates 
The following is a proposed structure for Professional Doctorates within the University of 
Strathclyde 
 
Professional practice/project based in industry. 
It is the responsibility of individual programme directors to determine how this should be 
embedded into the material below. 
                                                                                  
Level 12 (SHE 6) 
60 credits 
 
Directed study on research 
methods at doctoral level 
 
Level 11 and/or 12 (SHE 5/6) 
60 credits 
 
Directed study on areas of 
specialist knowledge 
 
APL possible 
 
 
Approved:  December 2005 
Updated:  October 2009 
3 
 
      Exit at this point with PGDip in    
      Practitioner Research 
 
Level 11 and/or 12 
60 credits 
 
Literature Review/mini 
dissertation 
 
 
 
     Exit at this point with MSc      Exit at this point with Professi o
     in Practitioner Research   Doctorate* or MPhil as appropriate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All 180 
credits in 
the left-hand 
column must be 
successfully 
completed  
before a 
candidate can  
start work on the 
thesis 
 
 
Level 12 (SHE 6) 
420 credits (to include the 60 
credits awarded for the 
literature review/dissertation) 
 
Thesis 
which may consist of a series of 
linked papers with reflective 
commentary 
(typically 50-60,000 words) 
 
Viva 
                    
          
All students should have access to a Personal and Professional Development Programme 
involving critical reflection on practice, em bedded, where appropriate, within the material 
detailed above, and to Generic Skills Training in line with the RCUK Statement of Skills 
Training Requirements and should be encouraged to maintain a Research Log/PDP 
portfolio.  
 
Faculties should seek to ensure that candidates for the Professional Doctorate are engaged fully 
within a lively and vital research community and should ensure that opportunities are created within 
the programme for significant interaction between these students, other research students and 
active researchers.   
 
Programmes should be structured to demonstrate, particularly for full-time participants, how the 
appropriate access to and linkage with supporting organisations can be effected. 
 
*  At present the Professional Doctorates approved by Senate are:  DBA, DEd, DEdPsy, and EngD  
While the Task Group acknowledges the need for subject specific degrees in some areas where 
these are already in general use nationally and inte rnationally, in order to avoid a proliferation of

--- PAGE 5 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Framework for Professional Doctorates 
Approved:  December 2005 
Updated:  October 2009 
4 
titles the Group recommends that the generic title DProf (subject) be adopted.  Faculties wishing to 
adopt a specific title for their programme will have to argue the case for their preferred option. 
 
Duration 
 
The Introduction to the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework  states that Professional 
Doctorates ‘require the equivalent of three years’ full-time research and study, and will frequently 
involve work-based as well as HEI-based research and study’. 
 
Given the Professional Doctorate’s orientation towards the practitioner as researcher, the Group 
recognises that many candidates will be undertaking their studies while working full-time.  
However, it is acknowledged that research on a full-time basis will be appropriate in some 
instances.  The normal duration of a Professional Doctorate is expected to be comparable with that 
for other similarly structured doctorates and to comply with Ordinance 4.2, which states that: 
 
‘to be admitted to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy a student must have pursued a course of full-
time study for not less than two years, or of part-time study for not less than three years, under 
conditions prescribed by the Senate’. 
 
Accreditation of Prior Learning 
 
It may be possible for participants to gain accreditation of prior learning in the field of specialist 
knowledge and/or research methods, up to a maximum of 60 credits.  However, the onus will 
normally be on the applicant to demonstrate that they understand how their prior knowledge fits 
into the new context of the Professional Doctorate. 
 
Supervision and Support for the Learning Process 
 
There should be clear and shared expectations, by a ll involved, as to the amount and nature of 
supervision provided for Professional Doctorate candidates. 
 
Candidates must have supervisors who collectively have experience of supervising doctorates to 
completion, specialist subject knowledge and a practitioner orientation. The latter may obtain 
through the involvement of well qualified external practitioners. 
 
Given the practitioner/professional orientation of the Professional Doctorate, significant learning will 
be expected to occur through interaction with participating organisations.  The appointment of a 
work-based professional as a mentor may also be appropriate. 
 
Arrangements for supervision should take account of the particular requirements and expectations 
of part-time research students, in line with the University’s Policy and Code of Practice for 
Research Students and relevant external frameworks such as the QAA Code of Practice:  Section 
1, and Faculties must make appropriate provision for supervision at a distance.  The support 
infrastructure during the research phase should be specified, robust and effective. 
 
Faculties and Departments offering, or intending to offer, the Professional Doctorate should make 
provision for the training and development of supervisors to enable them to guide candidates’ 
research effectively in terms of both relevant theory and practice.   
 
Assessment 
 
The QAA Framework for Scotland states that at least 420 of the total 540 credits must be at 
doctoral level.

--- PAGE 6 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Framework for Professional Doctorates 
Approved:  December 2005 
Updated:  October 2009 
5 
Directed Study 
The assessment scheme should have detailed criteria and clarify the range and relative values of 
assessment methods used and the level and weight of each part of the programme should be 
shown.  The scheme should specify how direct ed study and the assessment of personal and 
professional development are incorporated in the overall examination of candidates.  Standards 
should be comparable with those for other relevant doctoral programmes. 
 
Criteria for the assessment of interim or exit awards should be made clear in the assessment 
scheme and should comply with the QAA Framework for postgraduate awards.  Awards related to 
the directed study phase should comply with the criteria for taught Master’s degrees.   
 
The scheme should define the role of the examiners (including practitioner and external examiners) 
at each stage. 
 
Thesis
 
The central element of assessed work will be a substantial thesis, which may consist of a series of 
linked papers with reflective commentary.  Typically, the thesis should be of between 50,000 and 
60,000 words.  The thesis will be examined by in ternal and external examiners with relevant 
subject knowledge.  Candidates will have to defend their work in a viva voce examination.  The 
possible outcomes will be the same as for the PhD.  The degree of MPhil should be awarded only 
on the recommendation of the examiners where the thesis does not meet the criteria for the award 
of the doctorate but does meet the criteria for the award of the MPhil. 
 
The Institutional Context 
 
Responsibility for the overall quality of the Professional Doctorate within the University will reside 
with Senate.  Professional Doctorates must have a specific set of university regulations and the 
Professional Doctorate must be subject to appropriate QA processes.  Regulations should include 
reference to protocols for treating ethical issues in research, including those involving researchers 
working within the organisation that employs them and/or having access to privileged information, 
and intellectual property.  Full account should also  be taken of University policy and procedures 
and of relevant legislation (Health and Safety, Equal Opportunities, Disability, Freedom of 
Information, Data Protection etc).   
 
References 
 
The National Qualifications Framework for Higher Education Qualifications in Scotland 
 
Improving Standards in Postgraduate Research Degree Programmes, joint consultation process by 
the four UK higher education funding bodies, Autumn 2003 
 
Code of Practice, Section 1:  Postgraduate Research Programmes, QAA, revised version 
September 2004 
 
UKCGE report on professional doctorates (2002) 
 
UKCGE Professional Doctorate Awards in the UK (2005) 
 
ESRC Postgraduate Training Guidelines appendix 2:  Recognition of professional doctorates 
 
Table showing the key features of the professional doctorates currently offered by the University of 
Strathclyde 
 
Guidelines for the Doctor of Business Administration, the Association of Business Schools

--- PAGE 7 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
Framework for Professional Doctorates 
Approved:  December 2005 
Updated:  October 2009 
6 
Information on the Professional Doctorate in the Built Environment and the DBA and the 
programme specification for the EdD at the University of the West of England 
 
Regulations for the EngD from Loughborough University 
 
Information for internal students proceeding to the DEdPsy from the Institute of Education 
 
Regulations for Professional Doctorate Degrees from the University of Dundee 
 
Information on the EngD from the Institute for System Level Integration