--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
 
Quinquennial Review 
 
Student Participation in Quinquennial Review 
 
This Guidance has been developed to assist Faculties and Departments/Schools in 
understanding the role of students in the Quinquennial Review process. 
 
1. Student Member of the Review Panel 
The Review Panel will include one student member who is based in another 
department/school within the University or within the Strathclyde Student’s Union. The 
student member will be an equal member of the Review Panel, however it may be necessary 
for some sensitive matters to be dealt with as ‘Reserved Business’ for which the student 
member of the Review Panel would not be present.  
 
What is the Role of the Student Member of the Quinquennial Review Panel? 
As with the staff and external members of the Review Panel, student reviewers will be 
expected to: 
 
a. Read and analyse the Department/School’s Self-Evaluation Document (SED) and the 
supporting documentation provided to the Panel; 
b. Participate in the Review visits; 
c. Form conclusions based on the SED, the supporting documentation and meetings with 
students and staff; 
d. Contribute to and comment on the draft Review Report. 
 
Who Can Be a Student Member of a Quinquennial Review Panel? 
a. Current students of the University of Strathclyde based outwith the Department/School 
being reviewed; 
b. Members of the Student Executive of the University of Strathclyde Students’ Association 
(Strath Union). 
 
If a student is based in the Department/School under review or has any contact with the 
Department/School which might lead to a conflict of interest, they cannot be nominated as a 
student member of a Quinquennial Review Panel for that Department/School. 
 
All student reviewers must undertake the agreed training programme, as coordinated by 
Strath Union, before they can join a Quinquennial Review Panel. 
 
How will Student Members of Quinquennial Review Teams be identified? 
In any one year approximately five Quinquennial Reviews are undertaken. A requirement for 
at least fifteen student reviewers each year is anticipated to allow for the fact that any one 
individual student may not be available at the time of any one review. Each faculty is 
therefore required to nominate at least three student reviewers each year. 
 
As early as possible in each academic session, Departments/Schools should seek possible 
student reviewers from amongst their current students. In seeking nominations,

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
consideration should be given to the requirement for student reviewers to be fully 
representative of the profile of the student body as a whole. 
 
Heads of Department/School should forward nominations to the Faculty Office where a list of 
eligible Faculty nominees will be collated. The final selection of Departmental/School 
Reviewers from each Faculty will be made by the appropriate Faculty officers in discussion 
with the President of Strath Union or other nominated individual from the Student Executive. 
 
Once the new Student Executive has taken up office in July, the appropriate individual in the 
Education Enhancement Team will consult with the President of the University of Strathclyde 
Students’ Association to identify possible student reviewers from amongst the members of 
the student executive. 
 
A consolidated list of student reviewers from across the University will be maintained by 
Strath Union and the Education Enhancement Team. 
 
How Will Student Members of Quinquennial Review Panels be Appointed? 
Student members of Quinquennial Review Teams will be selected from the consolidated list 
of student reviewers by the relevant Faculty Office and Dean and will be appointed in the 
same way as other Review Team members. 
 
What Training/Briefing will Student Members of Quinquennial Review Panels 
Receive? 
All student members of Quinquennial Review Teams will receive generic training from 
sparqs. In addition, student members will attend the various briefing and preparatory 
meetings for their Quinquennial Review along with other Review Panel members. 
 
Will Student Members of Quinquennial Review Panels be paid? 
All student members of Quinquennial Review Teams, other than Sabbatical Officers, will be 
paid for each review undertaken. The Faculty Manager (or nominee) is responsible for 
confirming payment amounts and method of payment with the student member of a Review 
Panel at the point at which they agree to sit on the Review Panel. In addition, student 
members will be paid expenses to attend any external training event (i.e. sparqs) as required 
for all student reviewers. 
 
2. Students Meeting with the Review Panel 
The Department/School should ensure that a range of students studying in a variety of 
modes are selected to meet with the Review Panel to ensure that a wide array of views on 
provision are obtained by the Review Panel. 
 
Departments/Schools are responsible for ensuring that students who are to meet with the 
Review Panel are given a copy of the SED at least six weeks in advance of the review. 
 
The focus of the discussion with the students should primarily be their experiences of 
learning and teaching. Suggested questions for students meeting with the Review Panel are 
provided in Appendix A below.

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
APPENDIX A 
 
EXAMPLE QUESTIONS FOR THE REVIEW PANEL TO ASK AT 
STUDENT MEETINGS 
 
Quality of Information Provided to Students  
 
How does your experience of being a student at Strathclyde compare with the information 
provided prior to admission, both in the online prospectus and the University’s web 
pages? 
 
How did you find the induction process? Was there anything that you wish you had been 
informed of at this point? 
 
How useful do you find the programme handbook?  
 
Do you know where to go or who to contact for advice on personal or welfare matters? 
 
Assessment and Feedback 
 
Is the assessment process and the criteria for marking clear?  
 
Do you consider the assessment process (arrangements and marking) to be fair and 
consistent?  
 
How satisfied are you with the timing of feedback on coursework?  
 
How satisfied are you with the usefulness and quality of the feedback you receive on 
coursework? 
 
Are you aware of the module intended learning outcomes? Can you see how the 
assessments you are set relate to these?  
 
 
Learning and Teaching 
 
Do you think that the teaching on your programme is of a good quality and in line with 
what you expected? 
 
How effective are the lectures, seminars, tutorial classes, groupwork activities and 
placements?  
 
How satisfied are you with the structure and content of the curriculum, and the teaching 
methods employed?  
 
Do you find that the curriculum encourages the development of knowledge and skills? 
  
How satisfied are you with timetables and workload?  
 
In general, does your programme of study meet your expectations?

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
Quality of Learning Support 
 
Are tutors and advisors available to provide support and guidance when academic 
problems and queries arise? 
 
Are you able to access specific learning support, if required?  
 
Is effective support provided for work experience, placements, study abroad and other off-
campus experiences?  
 
 
Employability 
 
Are you confident that you are gaining skills relevant to further study and prospective  
employment to fulfil your career aspirations?  
 
Have you made use of the Careers Service? What was your experience of the support 
and advice that you received? 
 
 
Quality of Learning Resources 
 
What are your views on the Library provision, in terms of opening hours, access, user 
support, availability of books and journals?  
 
What are your views on the computer labs in terms of opening hours and access? Is the 
equipment reliable?  
 
Are there sufficient workstations available and is the software appropriate?  
 
Is there adequate IT support available to you from the University, in the event of queries, 
or in the event of technical failure?  
 
What are your views of the quality of teaching spaces (classrooms and lecture theatres) 
and their equipment? 
 
 
 
Other Areas for Discussion 
 
This should remain open-ended and can include items such as Department activities and 
resources. 
 
Responsiveness to Student Feedback 
 
How effective is the Student-Staff Liaison Committee? How do you find out what has 
happened at these meetings and about the Department’s response to suggestions/ideas 
raised at the meetings? 
 
Are you represented on any other Departmental/School/Faculty committees?  
 
Is your feedback considered in terms of teaching delivery, curriculum structure and 
assessment?