--- PAGE 1 ---

QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW 
 
Guidance for Students Meeting with the Review Panel 
 
Thank you for agreeing to take part in the University’s Quinquennial Review process. The 
following information provides an overview of what to expect from the experience and the 
meeting with the Review Panel. 
 
WHAT IS QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW?  
Quinquennial Review is an internal review of a Department/School with a focus on learning 
and teaching and wider strategic activities. The aim of the Review is to ensure that academic 
standards are being met and maintained, to identify examples of innovation and good 
practice and to identify any recommendations for the Department/School to consider. The 
outcomes of the Review are considered by the University’s Quality Assurance Committee 
and reported to Senate, Court, the Scottish Funding Council and the Quality Assurance 
Agency for Higher Education (QAA). 
 
WHY HAVE I BEEN INVITED TO MEET WITH THE PANEL? 
Student opinion is of high importance to the University. Your input is highly valued as a way 
of informing your Department/School about your student experience and in helping to shape 
the programme for future students. 
 
WHAT DO I HAVE TO DO?  
The Department/School will produce a Self-Evaluation Document (SED) for the Review 
Panel in advance of the review. The SED is designed to be a reflective review of the 
Department’s learning and teaching and wider activities, highlighting areas of innovation, 
challenges and plans for the future. Having read the SED and selected key areas of the 
student experience to focus on, the Review Panel will ask you a range of questions about 
your experiences. 
 
WHAT SHOULD I SAY? 
It is important to remember that it is the Department/School that is being reviewed and 
evaluated rather than you as students who are meeting with the Panel. Please be assured 
that responses are anonymous and that you can speak openly with the Panel. It is important 
to keep in mind that the Panel is focused on the wider student experience, so individual 
concerns (for example, a mark received for an assessment), should not be raised.

--- PAGE 2 ---

WHAT HAPPENS AFTER THE MEETING? 
The Review Panel produces a report, including recommendations for future actions. The 
Department/School is asked to make a response to the report and to comment on the planned 
approach for addressing the recommendations. These documents are then discussed by the 
University’s Quality Assurance Committee, who will subsequently receive a further update on 
progress against recommendations within twelve months of the review taking place. The 
Department/School should share the findings of the Review with students who attended the 
meeting with the Review Panel and more widely via Staff Student Liaison Committees.