--- PAGE 1 ---

GUIDELINES TO SUPPORT 
THE LEARNING & TEACHING 
OF UNDERGRADUATE AND 
POSTGRADUATE TAUGHT 
STUDENTS DURING PERIODS 
OF WIDESPREAD, 
SIGNIFICANT DISRUPTION 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 Guidelines to ensure support 
for learning and teaching in 
periods of disruption 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate 2020/21 
2.0 As above Education 
Enhancement 
Senate 2021/22 
3.0 Update to change document 
into standing guidelines 
Education 
Enhancement 
ESC April 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263
 
Version 3.0

--- PAGE 2 ---

2  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS ............................................................................................................. 2 
INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................................................... 3 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES ......................................................................................................... 3 
HOW TO MANAGE PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES ............................................................ 4 
ASSESSMENT & FEEDBACK ................................................................................................ 5 
SCENARIO PLANNING .......................................................................................................... 6 
Table 1 .......................................................................................................................................... 7 
STUDENT PROGRESSION/AWARDS ................................................................................. 12

--- PAGE 3 ---

3  
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. During periods of widespread, significant disruption, the University will publish planned 
approaches for the delivery of learning and teaching for the academic year. Any such 
approach will be approved by Senate, subject to the University’s priorities in line with any 
regulatory or government guidelines. 
 
2. In delivering learning and teaching, the University has a responsibility to uphold and respond 
to any government guidance in relation to the health, wellbeing and safety of students and 
staff. These Guidelines seek to provide a reference point for how to support students 
through any periods of widespread, significant disruption, particularly in cases where this 
disruption is ongoing, such as was the case with the Covid-19 pandemic for example.  
 
3. These Guidelines have been created for academic and professional services staff 
responsible for delivering and supporting learning and teaching activities during periods of 
significant, widespread disruption. 
 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES 
4. As the University responds to the impact of any widespread, significant disruption and plans 
for the academic year, it is essential that it maintains and evolves approaches to ensure 
students are supported and treated consistently and fairly. This may vary between 
programmes and learning experiences (depending on disciplines and professional 
accreditation requirements, for example). 
 
5. In developing academic policy, procedure, or guidance, at University or faculty-level, the 
following principles should be adhered to: 
 
a. Any new University or faculty-level academic policy created in response to widespread, 
significant disruption should be accompanied by appropriate implementation guidelines 
for the target audience. Where required, implementation guidelines should be 
accompanied by local module/department/school/faculty advice and support for staff and 
students, which will take account of professional body requirements; 
b. Any policies, procedures, or guidance produced by the University or faculties should be 
supportive of students and student engagement and should not adversely impact on 
progression; 
c. Any policies, procedures, or guidance produced by the University or faculties should be 
supportive of staff and staff engagement; 
d. Successful implementation of these Guidelines, and any policies/guidance developed by 
faculties in response to widespread, significant disruption will require engagement from 
all partners: academic teams; support teams, and students; 
e. Policy, procedures, and guidance developed should recognise relationships between 
existing policies across a range of related elements. For example, these Guidelines will 
refer to Assessment and Feedback Policy, Policy and Procedure for Late Submission of 
Coursework, Personal Circumstances Procedure, and the Policy and Procedure on 
Extensions to Coursework Submission, among others. It should be noted that within 
these Guidelines there is a focus on using the existing, well-established Personal 
Circumstances Procedure. At the heart of this approach is an emphasis on student 
communication and engagement with staff so that they can explore support options for 
students; 
f. Where possible and appropriate it is anticipated that any guidance will be applied 
consistently across and within faculties, particularly where students are on joint 
programmes and where assessment is outwith the student’s “home” department/school; 
g. Any academic policy, procedure or guidance being created should take account of the 
University’s commitment to Equality, Diversity & Inclusivity.

--- PAGE 4 ---

4  
 
 
6. For these Guidelines, the following broad principles apply: 
 
a. The ethos and content of these Guidelines should apply to all students; irrespective of 
mode and pattern of study and learning; 
 
b. Where possible, these Guidelines should apply to all taught elements of undergraduate 
and postgraduate degrees, however it is recognised that there may be instances where 
external accreditation requirements have an impact on programmes; 
 
c. The requirement for staff to ensure that students are aware of coursework deadlines to 
allow them to manage their time accordingly, is stipulated in the Assessment & Feedback 
Policy (sections 3.2 and 3.3) and reinforced in the ‘Add Coursework’ section on MyPlace; 
 
d. It is generally not expected that synchronous teaching activities are provide both online 
and in person simultaneously, to ensure that staff are not overburdened with increased 
workloads. Exceptions for this may be at the discretion of an individual member of staff, 
subject to Faculty approval, as indicated in the Hybrid Teaching and Learning Guidance.  
 
HOW TO MANAGE PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES 
7. The impact of widespread, significant disruption will be varied and will impact students in 
different ways. For some, this may be limited to experiencing the restrictions faced by all 
members of the community during a pandemic for example. Others may experience 
challenges that will directly impact on their studies and their ability to engage with them, 
which is a key point of these Guidelines and critical to underpinning the management and 
recognition of personal circumstances. 
 
8. In cases of widespread, significant disruption, particularly where this is ongoing, implementing 
the Personal Circumstances Procedure to manage all instances of disruption impacting learning 
and teaching is unlikely to benefit students or the University, due to the volume of paperwork 
that this would generate, which could potentially lead to delays in responding to students. In 
such instances of ongoing disruption, Senate will decide whether new arrangements need to be 
put in place to underpin and enhance the University’s usual approach to managing personal 
circumstances. 
 
9. During periods of widespread, significant disruption, particularly where this is ongoing, it is 
possible that the University will receive requests from students seeking to undertake learning in 
a different way from the approach articulated in the programme specification and/or module 
descriptor. For example, during the Covid-19 pandemic, when learning and teaching activities 
were undertaken via a blended learning model, including some on campus activities, requests 
were submitted to learn entirely remotely on the grounds of safety (either personal or for those 
caring for others). Any requests, during periods of disruption, to study outwith the standard 
parameters, are the responsibility of the Executive Dean who will nominate those with the 
delegated responsibility to consider and record these on a case-by-case basis.1 
 
10. Students who fall within this category should follow the six steps set out below. Nomenclature of 
roles varies within the four faculties. Advisor of Studies or Equivalent is used to describe the staff 
with the responsibilities across all four faculties.2 The University’s expectations are that in periods 
of significant, widespread disruption, the Vice-Deans (Academic) will ensure that staff are made 
aware of the responsibilities of different roles within the faculties in enacting these steps. It will 
                                                
1 The Executive Dean will finalise the outcome in cases where it has not been possible to reach agreement. 
 
2 Colleagues with responsibilities within paragraph 10, steps 1-6 may include: Programme Leader, Academic 
Advisor, Advisor of Studies or other roles. For the latter two roles, these may be at department, school and/or 
Faculty-level.

--- PAGE 5 ---

5  
also be important to ensure that students know who to approach.  
 
Step 1: Students are to communicate with their Advisor of Studies or Equivalent to explain their 
personal situation to enable staff to understand the nature and extent of their concerns to 
support these students in their learning as much as is possible. 
 
Step 2: The Advisor of Studies or Equivalent, in consultation with the nominated Faculty 
representative (if not the Advisor of Studies or Equivalent), must review the following 
with the student: 
 
a. Overall student engagement and mitigations that would need to be put in place for any 
students at risk; 
b. Individual’s personal circumstances, including any concerns or additional personal 
support which may need to be put in place which may include, but not be limited to, 
personal financial hardship and/or mental health concerns; 
c. Accreditation requirements for the individual’s programme of study and any mitigations 
that would need to be put in place; 
d. A review point agreed with the student, considering changing external circumstances, 
in the context of any regulatory or government guidance. 
 
Step 3:  The Advisor of Studies or Equivalent will determine the appropriate support requirements 
and where appropriate, refer the individual to student support services. 
 
Step 4:  The Advisor of Studies or Equivalent will determine whether the individual’s request for 
study outwith standard parameters should be recommended. This should involve contact 
with the University’s student support services. Any level of engagement with the student 
support services should be considered as suitable evidence. It should be noted that 
details relating to the nature of that engagement are not required. The Advisor of Studies 
or Equivalent will ensure that appropriate Faculty colleagues are updated on the outcome 
of the case. 
 
Step 5:  If the student is on a Tier 4/Student Route visa, the Advisor of Studies or Equivalent must 
seek advice from the Visa Compliance Team in relation to any appropriate and 
permissible concessions or adjustments. 
 
Step 6:   Approved requests will be entered into the personal circumstances record and be 
available for the Personal Circumstances Board as required. 
 
 
11. For students on combined programmes, the student should report only to their home department 
or school, who will then ensure that all others are informed, as appropriate. 
 
ASSESSMENT & FEEDBACK 
12. The paragraphs above set out several scenarios that are likely to lead to students learning in a 
variety of different ways. Module Leaders and Programme Leaders are therefore asked to 
consider assessment and feedback arrangements to ensure that students are not 
disadvantaged by widespread, significant disruption. 
 
13. Where directed by Senate, it is important that staff apply existing policies and procedures 
empathetically, such as the Policy and Procedure on Extensions to Coursework Submission and 
where relevant the Policy & Procedure for Late Submission of Coursework, in recognition that 
there may be an ongoing level of uncertainty for the student cohort, due to the external factors 
arising from periods of disruption.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6  
14. In periods of widespread, significant disruption it may become necessary for Module Leaders to 
request amendments to assessments falling outwith the Formal Assessment Period, to ensure 
parity for the student cohort. In such cases, as directed by Senate, guidance will be issued on 
extraordinary arrangements for making changes to programmes and modules. It is important for 
Module Leaders to seek input from the Programme Leader before proposing changes. 
 
15. The University’s Assessment & Feedback Policy contains useful information for staff on 
developing assessments and considering various ways in which feedback can be provided to 
students to enable them to support learning. Section 5 of the Policy clearly sets out 
responsibilities for assessment at various levels. 
 
SCENARIO PLANNING 
16. Consideration and planning should be undertaken for potential scenarios that may occur during 
periods of widespread, significant disruption that will impact learning and teaching activities. 
Table 1, below, identifies potential disruptions and should be used by Programme Leaders and 
Module Leaders as a starting point for scenario planning. 
 
17. Actions undertaken will be aligned to any regulatory or government guidance, as published at 
the time.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7  
 Table 1 
 
Scenario Planning for Periods of Widespread, Significant Disruption 
 
 
Scenario Potential Impact Planning 
Local or national lockdown 
during the teaching period 
Face-to-face teaching on campus 
suspended on advice of Government 
guidance 
Methods by which planned on campus lectures, tutorials, seminars, 
practical demonstration can be held online, or replaced by 
alternative activities that can offer the student an equivalent 
experience and meet programme-level Intended Learning 
Outcomes (ILOs). 
 
Widespread outbreak of 
endemic or pandemic illness 
on campus during the 
teaching period 
Face-to-face teaching on campus may 
be suspended on the advice of 
government or regulatory guidance, 
however it may still be possible for 
some sessions to go ahead 
Prioritisation planning should be in place to determine which 
programmes would be most adversely impacted by a loss of 
face-to-face teaching, (for example programmes with practical 
elements). At department/school-level a clear prioritisation plan 
should be produced and discussed at faculty-level to ensure that 
access to face-to-face learning is managed by reducing the 
impact on the student experience as far as possible. 
 
Localised endemic or 
pandemic outbreak on 
campus relating to a 
particular cohort or 
department/school during 
the teaching period 
Face-to-face teaching on campus may 
be suspended for particular cohorts of 
students and staff who are ill and/or 
self-isolating, affecting the delivery of 
face-to-face teaching for this group 
As in the event of a lockdown situation, students should be given 
access to online materials and teaching sessions, if possible, to 
minimise the impact on their studies. If a cohort is missing a key 
practical element of the programme, then plans should be made 
to deliver that aspect of the programme once students and staff 
are cleared to be back on campus. Clear and timely 
communications to students will be key in this scenario.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8  
Scenario Potential Impact Planning 
Lockdown in countries 
outside the UK 
occurring before the 
start of a semester 
Students may not be able to return to 
the country to attend on-campus 
teaching or assessment activities due 
to their own or UK/Scottish Government 
guidance 
Teaching and assessment activities should be made available 
online, where possible, to allow students to continue to engage 
with their studies. If students from the same programmes are 
missing practical sessions, thought should be given to delivering 
these again if the students can return to campus at a later date. 
Local or national 
lockdown during the 
formal assessment 
period 
Planned on-campus assessments 
cannot take place on the advice of 
Government guidance 
Plans should be produced for delivering the formal assessment 
period by other means, drawing on experience and good practice 
from the Covid-19 pandemic, with the use of online 
examinations/alternatives to practical assessments with a clear 
rationale for students as to how ILOs can still be met. 
Staff should refer to the Formal Assessment Period: Guidance in 
the Event of Disruption. 
Widespread endemic or 
pandemic outbreak on 
campus during the formal 
assessment 
period 
Several planned on-campus 
assessments cannot take place 
Prioritisation planning should be in place to identify which on- 
campus assessments should be prioritised. Assessments that 
can be undertaken online, should be moved to this mode of 
delivery. In cases where students are at a higher risk from an 
outbreak, or confirm that they are uncomfortable to attend 
campus, alternative assessment arrangements should be put in 
place, or the assessment should be repeated later, if possible. 
Depending on how widespread the disruption caused by an 
outbreak or endemic, the University may require students to 
apply formally for such arrangements.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9  
Scenario Potential Impact Planning 
Localised endemic or 
pandemic outbreak on 
campus relating to a 
particular cohort or 
department/school during 
the formal assessment 
period 
A cohort and staff are unable to 
undertake planned on-campus 
assessments due to a localised 
outbreak 
Consideration should be given to delaying assessments and 
rescheduling for when students and staff are cleared for on 
campus attendance again. Clear and timely communications with 
the student body will be key in this scenario. 
Disruption to placements 
due to national or local 
lockdown or outbreaks 
in placement sites 
Students are unable to complete their 
placement activity 
Planning for this eventuality will depend on the nature of the 
placement. If the placement is short, it may be possible for the 
student to liaise directly with the placement provider to arrange 
another placement opportunity. It may also be possible to 
undertake the placement online. For longer placements that 
form a core part of the programme, Programme Leaders will 
need to consider whether other activities could replace the 
placement whilst ensuring that the programme ILOs are still 
achieved. For programmes accredited by professional bodies 
and with placements that must be undertaken to achieve 
accreditation, Programme Leaders will need to liaise with the 
professional bodies to determine how best to proceed and will 
need to discuss the outcome with students to answer any 
concerns. 
 
Disruption to other off- 
campus activities due to 
national or local lockdown or 
outbreaks in external 
sites 
Students are unable to engage with 
physical collaborative or professional 
opportunities that form a core part of 
their programme, i.e. 1 to 1 or group 
counselling sessions in counselling 
programmes. 
Programme Leaders should encourage students to liaise with 
professional partners to explore online alternatives to planned 
face-to-face sessions. For collaborative provision programmes, 
Programme Leaders will need to liaise with partners to determine 
whether activities planned in other institutions/with those in 
industry can be rescheduled or conducted online.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10  
Scenario Potential Impact Planning 
Loss of access to on 
campus and online learning 
and teaching activities due 
to widespread energy 
blackouts, cyber attacks etc. 
Students and staff are unable to 
access broadband and electrical 
power off campus and are unable to 
travel to campus due to lack of public 
transport and safety arrangements for 
on campus spaces 
Programme Leaders should devise a catch-up plan for when 
energy is restored and consider changes to assessments in 
cases where ongoing energy challenges mean that it is not 
possible for students to catch up on missed activities, even with 
the provision of online materials. 
Disruption to teaching 
activities due to industrial 
action, including action short 
of a strike, such as a 
marking boycott 
Students miss lectures/seminars and 
in some cases will not be provided 
with materials to cover missed 
activities. In cases where action short 
of a strike occurs, there may be 
delays in Boards of Examiners being 
able to consider progression and 
outcomes. If a marking boycott were 
to occur, students may be missing a 
significant number of marks, affecting 
progression and outcomes. 
Heads of Department/School are responsible for managing 
arrangements locally to ensure that in cases where materials are 
not provided to cover missed teaching activities, Boards of 
Examiners are made aware of the situation affecting cohorts and 
take this into account, as broad personal circumstances, when 
reviewing individual student profiles. As happened during the 
Covid-19 pandemic, they will be asked to consider students’ 
historic grades as well as reviewing their performance in the 
given year. In cases where marks are missing, Boards of 
Examiners will be directed by Senate to make decisions based on 
the students’ whole profiles, as happened during the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Significant incident 
restricting access to campus 
on an ongoing basis, i.e. a 
terrorist incident or ongoing 
threat or destruction of 
buildings on campus, for 
example via a fire. 
This is unlikely to impact all students 
but it may affect cohorts, for example, 
if access cannot be gained to a 
building where practical work takes 
place, i.e. a lab, due to damage to the 
building 
Heads of Department/School put in place contingency plans for 
teaching activities and for assessment activities and ensure that 
these are reported to Boards of Examiners so that they can be 
considered when progression and outcome decisions are made.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11  
Scenario Potential Impact Planning 
Adverse weather, or national 
industrial action, causing 
widespread and ongoing 
disruption to the transport 
system 
Students and staff are unable to 
attend campus for lectures, seminars 
and formal assessments 
Much like planning for endemic or pandemic outbreaks restricting 
access to campus, Programme Leaders should work with Module 
Leaders to ensure a pivot to online learning and assessment 
where possible, and to provide catch up materials online.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12  
STUDENT PROGRESSION/AWARDS 
18. The University is committed to ensuring that widespread, significant disruption does not 
detrimentally affect students’ academic performance at module or programme level.  
 
19. The University community will build on experiences from previous academic years and reflect on 
emerging good practice during this period, particularly in relation to the Covid-19 outbreak. It is 
possible to manage the assessment of all students in all years of undergraduate and 
postgraduate taught study (Years 1-5) through periods of widespread, significant disruption and 
to ensure that progression/award of degrees is achieved. 
 
20. For accredited programmes there may be some challenges that require an element of 
compromise, however, wherever possible, progression and award decisions will be made to 
incorporate eligibility for professional registration. Where an expected award decision and 
professional registration is not possible, this must be communicated to students, and alternative 
arrangements put in place to achieve this at the earliest opportunity. 
 
21. The University’s Procedure and Guidance for Markers and Boards of Examiners in the Event of 
Widespread, Significant Disruption, focuses on ensuring no academic detriment in circumstances 
arising from the pandemic. Supplementary guidance to the Procedure and Guidance for Makers 
and Boards of Examiners will reflect information circulated to students and will take account of 
any approved alternative arrangements to the Formal Assessment Period to enable the 
University to facilitate: 
 
a. Credible and secure arrangements for the progression of years 1-5; and 
b. Recommendations for awards for all years of study. 
 
22. Decisions taken by Boards of Examiners’ will be based on academic judgement and therefore not 
subject to appeal on these grounds.