--- PAGE 1 ---

GUIDANCE ON 
MARKING 
ASSESSMENTS IN 
UNDERGRADUATE 
AND POSTGRADUATE  
TAUGHT COURSES 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
2.0 University Guidance 
on Marking 
Assessments in 
Undergraduate and 
Postgraduate Taught 
Courses 
Assessment 
and 
Feedback 
Working 
Group 
Senate  From academic 
year 2019-20 
      Version 2.0 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Courses 
Accuracy in marking and fairness in the way all students are assessed is crucial to ensuring a 
high quality degree in which  students, employers and postgraduate selectors can have 
confidence. The marking of all summative assessments should be in alignment with published 
assessment criteria and appropriate standards. This minimal guidance aims to support staff 
when developing marking criteria to assess individual undergraduate and post-graduate taught 
assessments.  This approach to marking is commonly referred to as ‘criteria-referenced’, where 
individual assessments are assessed against explicit criteria. The University does not endorse 
the alternative ‘norm-referenced’ approach to marking, where a fixed proportion (or narrow  
range of proportions) of students are awarded grades within each grade band.  Individual 
assessments should be graded using one of the two scales below, Type A (the full 100 point 
percentage scale) or Type B (a restricted percentage scale) , dependent on the type of 
assessment. Marks should take account of the performance descriptor (underlined) at each 
band, and the wording of feedback should align with the descriptor for the selected performance 
level.  
Note that this guidance relates to the marking of individual assessments, and not to the 
aggregate marks returned for modules. Staff will need to supplement this guidance, or 
provide alternative detailed assessment criteria that align to the learning outco mes 
being assessed at the level of study , so that students understand the criteria by which 
their work is assessed. This must be done in ways that  clearly demonstrate equivalence 
and with an approach to marking that is consistent with this guidance. 
Type A: Numerically based assessments, assessments with short answers  
Where assessments are numerical in nature,  or where there are questions with each answer 
attracting a small number of marks, the full 0 -100 percentage point marking scale should be 
used. This type of assessment is common where there is a clear right and wrong answer (e.g. 
multiple choice examinations and some assessments in Science, Engineering, and Languages 
may pose questions with answers that are correct or incorrect, and using the 100 point 
percentage marking scale is therefore meaningful ). The Type A scale may also be meaningful 
for assessments where the total number of marks that can be awarded is less than 100, and 
where the mark is then converted to the full percentage scale. 
Type B: Other assessments 
Where an assessment cannot be categorised as Type A, such that there is  no clear right and 
wrong answer, and instead it may be the quality of analysis and argument that are assessed 
(e.g. essays), assessments should be marked using the Type B  scale, which is a restricted 
percentage scale. The aim of employing this marking scale is to improve the accuracy, reliability 
and transparency  of the academic judgement  of assessments where the difference between 
each point on the marking scale can be meaningfully evaluated and described using this  
restricted percentage scale, as opposed to the Type A scale where differences between each 
individual point on the 100 point scale (for example, the difference between a mark of 61 and 
62) are difficult  to differentiate, and as a result greatly diminish the reliability of this scale in 
assessing such work . Staff may use the Type B scale to holistically judge the quality of a 
student’s work in line with the relevant assessment criteria, or they may use the scale to 
develop marking rubrics that clearly describe the quality of work at different levels of attainment 
for each criterion separately. W here staff use such marking rubrics to assess students’ work,

--- PAGE 3 ---

Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Courses 
the Type B scale can be applied at the level of assessing attainment against individual criteria 
(e.g. quality of argument, use of evidence)  included in t he rubric. This may result in an overall 
mark for an assessment that is not included within the Type B scale. This is acceptable, since 
the scale is applied at the level of assessing attainment against each assessment criterion. 
Appendix 1 shows examples of assessment strategies using Type A and/or Type B scales. 
Where numerical marks are not  appropriate, marks may be returned on a pass/fail  basis, 
subject to approval by the relevant Faculty’s Vice Dean Academic.  
Class Type A Type B Descriptor 
UG: First 
PG:  
Distinction 
90 - 
100 
92, 100 Exceptional demonstration of the learning outcomes 
Exceptional in most or every respect, the work demonstrates 
all of the characteristics noted for First class in the 
Outstanding range below and is also well beyond the level 
expected of a highly competent student at their level of study, 
and could not be bettered for the level of study.  
80 - 89 84 Outstanding demonstration of the learning outcomes 
Outstanding in most respects, the work is what might be 
expected of a highly competent student at their level of study. 
The work demonstrates most of the following attributes: 
- A breadth of appropriate and focussed knowledge, and a 
deep and critical understanding  of the subject matter 
- An outstanding standard of synthesis and evaluation, and 
a critical and insightful analysis 
- Complexity of thought, creativity, insight and/or originality  
- Evidence of comprehensive reading and thought of 
significant complexity and well beyond, but still relevant 
to, course/assignment materials 
- Outstanding use of references and exemplars, well 
beyond, but still relevant to, course/assignment materials  
- An outstanding standard of writing and communication 
and/or presentation, that is clearly and logically structured 
70 - 79 72, 75, 
78 
Excellent demonstration of the learning outcomes 
Excellent in most respects, the work is what might be 
expected of a very competent student at their level of study. 
The work demonstrates 
- Wide, appropriate and focussed knowledge and critical 
understanding  of the subject matter 
- An excellent standard of synthesis and evaluation and/or 
shows critical and insightful analysis 
- Some complexity of thought, insight and/or originality 
- Evidence of comprehensive reading and thought beyond 
course/assignment materials  
- Excellent use of references and exemplars  
- An excellent standard of writing and communication 
and/or presentation, that is clearly and logically structured 
UG: Upper 
second 
60 - 69 Low 
2.1: 62 
Mid 
2.1: 65  
Comprehensive demonstration of the learning outcomes 
Very good or good in most respects for the level of study in 
displaying attainment of the learning outcomes, with marks at 
the higher end of this scale reflecting stronger and more

--- PAGE 4 ---

Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Courses 
PG: Merit High 
2.1: 68 
consistent attainment of the learning outcomes. This work 
demonstrates: 
- A very good or good level of appropriate knowledge and 
critical understanding of the subject matter, with only 
occasional lapses in detail  
- Very good or good synthesis, analysis, reflection, 
understanding  and/or critical evaluation  
- Evidence of reading and thought beyond 
course/assignment materials  
- Appropriate use of references and exemplars  
- A good standard of writing and communication and/or 
presentation, that is clearly and logically structured 
UG: Lower 
second 
PG: Pass 
50 - 59 Low 
2.2: 52 
Mid 
2.2: 55 
High 
2.2: 58 
Satisfactory demonstration of the learning outcomes:  
The work is satisfactory for the level of study and clearly 
meets the requirements for demonstrating the relevant 
learning outcomes. Marks at the higher end of this scale 
reflect stronger and more consistent attainment of the 
learning outcomes for this standard of work. This work 
demonstrates: 
- Satisfactory knowledge and a reasonable understanding 
of the essential material  
- Weaknesses in the synthesis and/or analysis, reflection, 
understanding and critical evaluation of material, resulting 
in parts of the work being overly descriptive in nature 
- General accuracy with occasional mistakes and/or 
reduced focus on the main issue or lapses in detail  
- Limited evidence of reading and thought beyond 
course/assignment materials  
- A satisfactory standard of writing and communication 
and/or presentation, where there may be weaknesses in 
the clarity and/or structure of the work 
- Appropriate use of references and exemplars, though 
there may be minor flaws in the referencing technique 
UG: Third 
PG: Fail 
40 – 49 
 
 
Low 
3rd: 42,  
Mid 3rd: 
45,  
High 
3rd: 48 
ASSESSMENTS AT YEARS 1-4: Limited demonstration 
of the learning outcomes. 
 
ASSESSMENTS AT YEAR 5 & PGT LEVEL: 
Unsatisfactory demonstration of the learning outcomes. 
The work meets the minimum requirements for 
demonstrating the relevant learning outcomes for the level of 
study in years 1 to 4, but not at year 5 and PGT level. Marks 
at the higher end of this scale reflect stronger and more 
consistent attainment of the learning outcomes for this 
standard of work, although ultimately insufficiently at year 5 
and PGT level. This work demonstrates:  
- Basic knowledge and understanding 
- A weak argument which is not logically structured or 
which lacks clarity or is based on unsubstantiated 
statements 
- No relevant critical analysis 
- Insufficient evidence of reading and thought beyond 
course/assignment materials  
- Poor organisation and/or presentation

--- PAGE 5 ---

Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Courses 
- A lack of references and exemplars 
UG: Fail 
PG: Fail 
30 - 39 32, 35, 
38 
ASSESSMENTS AT YEARS 1-4 Marginal fail: Inadequate 
demonstration of the learning outcomes 
 
ASSESSMENTS AT YEAR 5 & PGT LEVEL: Inadequate 
demonstration of the learning outcomes 
The work fails to meet the minimum requirements for 
demonstrating the relevant learning outcomes for the level of 
study. Marks at the higher end of this scale reflect stronger 
and more consistent attainment of the learning outcomes 
within this range of marks. This work demonstrates:  
- An insufficient level of knowledge and understanding  
- A poorly structured, poorly developed, or incoherent 
argument, or no argument at all 
- An awkward writing style or poor expression of concepts 
- A lack of familiarity with the subject and/or assessment 
method  
- Insufficient evidence of reading and thought beyond 
course/assignment materials  
- A lack of references and exemplars 
20 - 29 20 Clear fail: Weak demonstration of the learning outcomes 
The work is very weak or shows a decided lack of effort. The 
work demonstrates 
- Very poor or confused knowledge and understanding, 
with reference to only a few key words, phrases or key 
ideas 
- No argument or one based on irrelevant and erroneous 
content  
- Irrelevant content and extensive omissions 
- Weaknesses of presentation and/or logic and/or evidence  
- Inadequate evidence of learning  
- Incomplete or inadequately presented references, if any 
1 - 19 10 Minimal demonstration of the learning outcomes  
- The work is extremely weak. The work demonstrates: 
No knowledge or understanding of the area in 
question 
- Incomplete, muddled, and/or irrelevant material  
- Irrelevant or little content, extensive omissions 
- Weaknesses of presentation and/or logic and/or 
evidence  
- Deficient evidence of learning  
- Incomplete or inadequately presented references, if 
any 
0 0 No relevant work submitted for assessment

--- PAGE 6 ---

Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Courses 
Appendix 1. Examples of assessment strategies using Type A and/or Type B scales. 
These examples illustrate the application of Type A and/or B marking scales to assess 
students’ work, and how the marks awarded for each individual assessment contribute to 
aggregate module marks. 
1. Assessment strategy for Module 1, with one assessment marked using Type B 
scale and one assessment marked using Type A scale. 
Assessment Weighting Marking scale Mark awarded 
Essay 50% Type B 68% 
MCQ Exam 50% Type A 39/50, returned to 
student as 78% 
Module aggregate 
mark 
100%  73% 
 
2. Assessment strategy of Module 2, with two assessments marked using Type B 
scales. 
Assessment Weighting Marking scale Mark awarded 
Essay 40% Type B 65% 
Research proposal 60% Type B 75% 
Module aggregate 
mark 
100%  71% 
 
3. Assessment strategy of Module 3, with two assessments marked using Type A 
scales. 
Assessment Weighting Marking scale Mark awarded 
Lab report 50% Type A 48% 
Examination (short 
answers + MCQ) 
50% Type A 42% 
Module aggregate 
mark 
100%  45%

--- PAGE 7 ---

Guidance on Marking Assessments in Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Courses 
4. Assessment strategy for Module 4, with one assessment marked using Type A 
scale and one assessment marked using Type B scale. 
Assessment Weighting Marking scale Mark awarded 
Research ethics 
application 
50% Type A (clearly 
defined marking 
scale with mark out 
of 30, converted to 
a percentage) 
18/30, returned to 
student as 60% 
Research proposal 50% Type B 68% 
Module aggregate 
mark 
100%  64%