--- PAGE 1 ---

GUIDANCE ON THE 
OPERATION OF VIRTUAL 
OR HYBRID ORAL 
EXAMINATIONS 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.1 
Guidance for staff and 
PGR students on the 
operation of virtual or 
hybrid oral exams 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate 29th March 
2023 
29th March 2023 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
GUIDANCE ON THE OPERATION OF VIRTUAL OR HYBRID ORAL EXAMINATIONS 
Overview 
1. This document provides guidance for University of Strathclyde staff and PGRs on conducting oral
examinations incorporating video conferencing. This document should be read alongside the
General Academic Regulations: Postgraduate Research Degree Regulations.
2. Fol
lowing the move to virtual oral examinations necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, a number
of benefits were identified as a consequence of this change, most notably the widening of the pool
of external exami ners. Whilst in -person oral examinations remain the default format, hybrid or
virtual exams will be permitted, however under no circumstances should the chosen format of the
ex
amination place the candidate at a disadvantage. It is essential that appropriate arrangements
are made to maintain the integrity, confidentiality and validity of the examination process.
3. The 
term ‘video conferencing’ will be used for simplicity throughout this guidance document and
refers to any generic technology suited to the pur pose of holding secure, multi -user video wit h
audi
o conferencing (Zoom, MS Teams, Skype for Business etc.).
Format of Oral Examinations 
4. Oral examinations may be conducted in one of three ways:
• In person/on campus
• Virtually
• Hybrid
o In such circumstances, the expectation would be that only the External Examiner and/or
the candidate would attend remotely.
5. C
andidates will normally only be permitted to attend their oral examination via video conferencing
i
f their visa status has required them to return to their home country. The interim progress report
or thesis submission documentation may be utilised as a means of agreeing the format of the oral
exam and this should subsequently be recorded in the post-exam report, for audit purposes.
Procedures for Utilising Video Conferencing in Oral Examinations 
6. Candidates must agree that they will not use the video conference format for the exam as grounds
for an appeal.
7. A
ll oral examinations which occur by video conference must be chaired by the appointed convenor
of the examination committee who should be present throughout the examination.
8. The c
onvenor will be responsible for ensuring that all parties involved in the examination are
informed, sufficiently well in advance, of the details of the video-conferencing exam arrangements
and that their agreement has been obtained. An email record of agreement should be retained.
9. A
ny time differences must be considered to ensure that the candidate is not placed at a
di
sadvantage during the examination (scheduling times outside local working hours should  be
av
oided if at all possible).
10. The ar
rangements for video conferencing must be made by the convenor.

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
 
11. All remote oral examinations must be conducted using visual as well as audio interaction. It is not 
permissible for an exam to be conducted by audio means alone. The candidate’s microphone 
should remain on throughout the duration of the examination; the convener and exam iners may 
wish to mute their microphones when not required. 
 
12. A ‘lobby’ or ‘waiting room’ should be created in which the student may be requested to wait, when 
required. 
 
13. Any additional written materials or visual aids required of the candidate by the examiners must be 
made available in advance of the examination whenever possible. Where the candidate wishes, or 
is asked by an examiner, to provide a written or illustrated response to a question  during the 
examination, this may be presented either electronically (using a tablet or the whiteboard function 
on the video conferencing software) or manually (by sketching on paper and holding the sheet up 
to the camera). 
 
14. All parties must be visible during the examination. 
 
15. The candidate should be alone during the examination, the positioning of the candidate and angle 
of the camera should be such that the examiners are satisfied the candidate is alone and will not 
be disturbed. 
 
  
Before the Examination 
16. All the equipment and video conferencing software to be utilised during the exam should be fully 
tested and it is essential that at least one party in each location is capable of troubleshooting any 
potential problems.  
 
17. A contingency plan in the event of a technical failure must be agreed. It is advised that phone 
numbers are provided should a technical malfunction arise during the examination, but the oral 
exam should only proceed when acceptable video and audio links are re-established. 
 
18. The candidate should be advised to make themselves familiar with the room layout and the 
equipment required for the video conference examination.  
 
19. Normal procedures regarding the submission of pre-examination reports should be followed. 
 
20. On the appointment of the external examiner, appropriate Right to Work checks should be 
undertaken in line with current guidelines
. 
 
21. The convenor, internal and external examiner(s) should consult privately with each other on the 
conduct of the examination; how the pre -exam discussion will be conducted; the form and 
sequence of questions, who should take the lead at various stages of the exam; what graphics and 
documentation viewing facilities, etc might be required. 
 
22. The room layout and video camera positioning should ensure that all parties, including the 
candidate, are visible throughout the oral examination. 
 
23. If the candidate is undertaking the exam remotely, the convenor must ensure that appropriate 
student welfare arrangements are in place to support them, particularly following an unsuccessful 
outcome.

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
During the Examination 
24. The content and conduct of the video conference examination should be the same as that for a 
face-to-face oral examination.  
 
25. The candidate’s identity must be verified at the start of the examination by a staff member of the 
candidate’s department (usually the internal examiner).  
 
26. The examination must not be recorded.  
 
27. If communication is broken during the examination and a connection cannot be re-established, the 
exam must be terminated and rescheduled.  
 
28. Any rescheduled examination should take place within one month of the original exam.  
 
29. If the need to reschedule the exam ination arises, no re-assessment of material covered in the 
original exam should occur.  
 
30. In the event that a communication link is broken towards the end of an examination, and examiners 
are agreed that further assessment would not change a positive outcome decision, the exam may 
be concluded and the candidate notified of the examiners’ joint recommendation. This should be 
detailed in the examiners’ report and account should be made of any content that was potentially 
missed after the break in communication. 
 
31. If a positive outcome is not assured, the examination should be rescheduled and fully concluded. 
 
 
Following the Examination 
32. At the close of the examination of the candidate, the convenor should invite the candidate to 
physically leave the room or, if attending remotely, be moved to the lobby/waiting room whilst the 
examiners hold a private discussion on the examination outcome. It is advised that the candidate 
be informed of the approximate time that this discussion will take and when to be on hand to re -
join the committee to be informed of the examiners’ decision. It is important that the candidate is 
aware in advance that this is part of the normal procedure. 
 
33. Candidates should be informed of the outcome of their oral examination as soon as possible and 
the procedures for outcomes and corrections should be explained to the candidate.  
 
34. Outcomes are the same as thos e for face -to-face oral examinations and the examiners are 
required to file a joint report. In the case of minor corrections , these should be cited in the joint 
post-viva report and brought to the attention of the candidate by the internal examiner.  
 
35. Internal members of the examination panel should be prepared to offer further counsel once the 
examination has ended. It is important to keep in mind that the candidate will require support in the 
event of an undesirable outcome, and therefore sufficient support should be offered by the 
examination team and supervisors. It is sensible for candidates to have someone available to 
support them once the exam has concluded. When required, the candidate should be provided 
with, or directed towards, appropriate student welfare arrangements.