--- PAGE 1 ---

STUDENT DISCIPLINE: GUIDANCE FOR STUDENTS ON 
SUBMITTING EVIDENCE 
The Student Discipline Procedure  is a process by which the University can ensure a safe, 
productive, and respectful environment for all students and staff. The University may take 
disciplinary action where it decides (on the balance of probabilities), that an offence has been 
committed.  
After an allegation has been made, the University may decide to investigate. It appoints an 
appropriate person to determine whether the allegation has merit.  For minor offences , this 
person has the power to impose a number of appropriate penalties.  
If the case is of a more serious nature, it may be referred to the University Secretary who will 
determine whether there are grounds to proceed to a Senate Discipline Committee.  
In both these instances, students have a right to submit evidence on their behalf , are invited 
to attend an interview, and have the right to appeal the outcome.  This document is aimed at 
providing some brief guidance for students on submitting evidence relating to their case in 
each of these instances. 
How do we consider evidence? 
• Burden of Proof 
The ‘Burden of Proof’ determines whose responsibility it is to prove an issue. In a disciplinary 
case, that burden should be on the provider. This means that the provider must prove that the 
student has done what they have been accused of doing. 
Sometimes the student will need to prove that they have not done something, or that 
something has happened. Students may also need to provide evidence on any mitigating or 
Personal Circumstances
 that are relevant to the case. 
• Standard of Proof 
The ‘Standard of Proof’ is the burden on the person to establish facts that support a case or 
accusation. At Strathclyde, the standard of proof we use is the legal concept of on the balance 
of probabilities. This means that the investigating party must be satisfied that on the evidence 
provided, it is more than likely that the allegation did take place. 
Submitting evidence that supports a case 
It is incredibly important, therefore, that students submit all appropriate evidence to ensure 
that the investigating persons can consider the whole picture and all the facts. Some key 
principles are worth bearing in mind when you are considering whether to include a piece of 
evidence: 
• Does the evidence relate to the case?

--- PAGE 2 ---

In order to make sure the case is resolved as quickly as possible, it’s really important to submit 
only evidence that relates to your case.  
• Is the evidence contextualised? 
Make sure your evidence is contextualised. If you are submitting emails or other forms of 
correspondence, for example, don’t only submit those emails that support your case. You 
should submit all correspondence between relevant parties that also relate to the case at 
hand. 
• Does the evidence provide explanation for mitigating circumstances? Or does it 
provide a rebuttal to evidence provided against you? 
If you have evidence that you think proves that you did not do something, submit it so it can 
be considered! The same goes for personal circumstances. If the University doesn’t know 
about personal issues that are affecting your studies, they cannot be taken into consideration! 
Senate Discipline Committee 
Any evidence which you wish to be considered by a Senate Discipline Committee must be 
submitted to the Senate Office at least five working days before the hearing. 
This should be submitted to senate-discipline@strath.ac.uk  
 
Things to note: 
• You have the option to speak with a Student Advisor, from the Strath Union Advice 
Hub. They can provide guidance and support specific to your case. 
• Evidence should be submitted via email in a single zipped folder. 
• If any of the evidence is not in English, an independent translation must be provided, 
e.g. from a professional translation service, member of University staff, embassy etc. 
This translation should not be undertaken by the student, a member of their family, or 
friend. 
• If you have personal circumstances but are not able to supply appropriate evidence, 
please get in touch with your departmental/ School contact to discuss this. 
The following are some examples of acceptable forms of evidence: 
• Emails and other forms of communication between relevant parties;  
• Records relating to any meetings between affected parties in relation to the 
allegations; 
• Witness statements – please ensure you have their permission to share these; 
• Academic Evidence (where appropriate); and 
• Proof of Personal Circumstances or other Mitigating Evidence.  
The following are not normally accepted as forms of evidence (exceptions do apply): 
• Letters from family members, friends, or other students;

--- PAGE 3 ---

• Character references that confirm the good character of the student but cannot 
confirm the facts of the claim; and 
• Bank statements