--- PAGE 1 ---

GUIDANCE FOR 
POSTGRADUATE 
RESEARCH STUDENTS 
WHO SUPPORT TEACHING 
AND TEACHING-RELATED 
ACTIVITIES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 Guidance for Postgraduate 
Research Students who support 
teaching and teaching-related 
activities. 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate January 2021 
2.0 Revisions including: updating of 
hyper-links; removal of 
references to Schools; updates to 
Training and Support to reflect 
current practice and expectations 
around recording by Faculties 
and reporting to QAC.  
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate June 2025 
 
  
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, 
number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

Guidance for Postgraduate Research 
Students who support teaching and 
teaching-related activities. 
Contents 
Introduction ..........................................................................................................................1  
Key principles ....................................................................................................................... 1 
Teaching and teaching-related opportunities .....................................................................3  
Fair recruitment and employment .......................................................................................4  
Appointment .......................................................................................................................4  
Hours of Work and Payment ...............................................................................................4  
Grievance, Performance and Disciplinary Procedures .........................................................6  
Ensuring Equality and Diversity ........................................................................................... 6 
Responsibilities ....................................................................................................................6  
PGRs undertaking teaching and teaching-related duties .....................................................6  
University ............................................................................................................................7  
Training, development, and support ...................................................................................8  
Induction and Training ........................................................................................................ 8 
Professional development ...................................................................................................9  
Feedback and review .......................................................................................................... 9 
Strathclyde’s Teaching Excellence Programme ........................................................................... 9 
Opportunities for External Professional Accreditation ..........................................................9  
Appendix A: Department/School PGR teaching and teaching-related training register 
. .............................................................................................................................................................. 10

--- PAGE 3 ---

1  
Introduction 
1. The University of Strathclyde (University) recognises that the participation of 
Postgraduate Research (PGR) students in teaching and teaching-related activities brings 
a range of benefits to PGRs, the students they teach and support, and the wider 
University. The University values the role PGRs play in the delivery of high-quality 
teaching and teaching-related activities. The University also understands that 
employment in a teaching or teaching-related capacity can provide an excellent 
opportunity for PGRs to develop a range of personal and professional skills. The 
University, therefore, encourages PGRs and their supervisors o consider teaching and 
teaching-related opportunities whenever they arise. 
 
2. This guidance provides PGRs and Departments with information about PGR 
employment and development in a teaching or teaching-related role in the University. 
Specifically, this guidance details the University’s approach to recruitment and terms of 
employment, such as rates of pay, and outlines how the University seeks to support and 
facilitate professional development for PGRs in teaching and teaching-related roles. 
 
3. This guidance supplements the University’s Code of Practice for Postgraduate 
Research Students, and should be read in conjunction with the University’s 
Engagement of Workers Guidance which details in full the process for employing PGRs. 
 
4. This guidance applies to all PGRs (and any Postgraduate Taught Students) employed by 
the University to undertake teaching or teaching-related activities at the University but 
does not apply to current full or part-time members of staff of the University who are 
concurrently registered on a postgraduate research degree programme at the University. 
 
5. This guidance has been developed to meet the requirements and expectations set out in 
the UK Quality Code for Higher Education and QAA Scotland’s Statement of 
Expectations for the Support of Postgraduates Who Teach. 
 
Key principles 
7. This guidance is underpinned by the following key principles, which ensure that the 
expectations set by best practice across the higher education sector can be met by the 
University. The University expects that: 
 
a. PGR students will be paid appropriately for all teaching and teaching-related 
duties, and associated mandatory training (as stipulated by their Department), 
they are required to undertake in order to carry out these duties (see Para 186 
of the University’s Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Students); 
 
b. PGRs who are appointed to teach and support teaching will be offered, and 
required to undertake, appropriate and adequate training prior to taking on 
any duties, and will be supported and mentored in order to carry out these 
duties effectively;

--- PAGE 4 ---

2  
c. PGRs may be involved in teaching and teaching-related activities with 
undergraduate and postgraduate-taught students. Faculties and Departments 
may, however, choose to impose particular restrictions and/or conditions on PGR 
involvement in particular teaching and teaching-related activities; 
d. PGRs employed in teaching and teaching-related roles on a given module or 
programme are considered a part of that module and/or programme team, 
and involved as part of the team in ways that reflect the nature of their duties 
as outlined in their job level descriptor, which specify level of autonomy; 
 
e. PGRs in teaching and teaching-related roles should be given an appropriate job 
title (for example, Graduate Teaching Assistant, Graduate Tutor, Graduate 
Demonstrator) which accurately reflects the nature of their duties; 
 
f. PGRs’ teaching and teaching-related workloads will be monitored by 
Departments and departments and supervisors will take all reasonable steps 
to ensure that these duties do not unduly distract any PGR from their primary 
focus which is completing their postgraduate research degree within the 
expected maximum period (see also paragraph 15 below which outlines the 
maximum permitted teaching hours per week); 
 
g. PGRs may provide support for formative and summative assessment and in 
doing so must adhere to the University’s Assessment and Feedback Policy; 
 
h. teaching and teaching-related opportunities made available to PGRs are optional 
(unless otherwise stated or agreed in an individual’s specific funding 
arrangements or similar contracts); 
 
i. the availability of teaching and teaching-related opportunities for PGRs will vary 
over time and between Departments, and decisions on the allocation of 
available opportunities will be made based on an assessment of the 
qualifications, experience, aptitude, and skills of each individual; and, 
j. Departments will take all reasonable steps to ensure that t the expected quality of 
teaching and learning is always safeguarded.

--- PAGE 5 ---

3  
Teaching and teaching-related opportunities 
8. Where teaching and teaching-related activities are offered to PGRs, they may include, 
but not necessarily be limited to, the following: 
a. Tutoring (e.g. teaching tutorials, seminars, workshops, and other small group 
teaching sessions); 
b. Lecturing (e.g. teaching for extended periods to large groups either individually, 
or as part of a team-teaching approach); 
c. Laboratory and practical class demonstrating (excludes providing ad hoc support in a 
laboratory setting about lab practice); 
d. Project supervision with and mentoring of undergraduate and postgraduate 
taught students; 
e. Fieldwork and fieldtrip assistance with undergraduate and postgraduate taught 
modules and programmes; 
f. Pastoral support; 
g. Marking and providing feedback on summative assessments; 
h. Providing feedback on formative assessments (e.g. written or verbal feedback on 
class presentations); 
i. Invigilation; 
j. Scribing and notetaking; 
k. Transcribing; and 
l. Online teaching support (e.g. monitoring student forums) 
 
While PGRs in teaching and teaching-related roles are responsible for undertaking the 
specific duties allocated to them, the Module Leader and/or Programme Director will 
retain overall responsibility for teaching and assessment for the module and/or 
programme. PGRs should not be allocated Module Leadership responsibilities. 
9. The criteria for undertaking teaching and teaching-related roles as a PGR should 
include, but not necessarily be limited to, one or more of the following: 
a) subject-specific knowledge, skills, and/or expertise; 
 
b) demonstrated competence in skills and capabilities associated with effective 
teaching and/or student engagement; 
 
c) level of study (see also point 7.c above); 
d) confidence, based on consultation with the PGRs supervisors where necessary, 
that the proposed activities are unlikely to have a negative impact on the 
individual’s progress with their postgraduate research degree; and, 
 
e) equality of opportunity. 
10. Where it is determined that a PGR should not undertake new teaching or teaching- 
related duties due to concerns relating to the criteria set out in point 9 above, they are 
entitled to ask the selector(s) for a justification, and may appeal this decision in writing to 
the Programme Director and/or the Department Director or Head of Learning and 
Teaching (or equivalent). The Programme Director and/or Director or Head of Learning 
and Teaching will consider this appeal, liaising with the PGR’s Supervisor as 
appropriate, and respond to the PGR in writing.

--- PAGE 6 ---

4  
Fair recruitment and employment 
Appointment 
11. As a people-oriented institution and socially progressive employer, the University values 
the contribution PGRs make to learning and teaching activities. The University 
recognises that in order to ensure equal opportunity for all, teaching vacancies that 
exceed 100 hours duration over a single academic year will be advertised in accordance 
with the University’s policies for equality and diversity. 
12. Teaching and teaching-related roles and opportunities should be openly advertised via 
email and by announcement by Module Leaders and/or Programme Directors and/or on 
Engage ATS as they arise. 
 
13. The statement of particulars for each role should set out essential and desirable criteria 
for the role. Suitable candidates will be invited to apply electronically. 
 
14. Module Leaders and/or Programme Directors (or nominees) are responsible for 
managing the selection process (normally one or more interviews for shortlisted 
candidates) within the advertised timeframe and ensuring the most appropriate 
candidate is selected for the role. Unsuccessful candidates will be encouraged to seek 
feedback on their application. 
 
Hours of Work and Payment 
15. In line with the University’s Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Students, PGRs 
appointed to teaching and teaching-related roles will be paid in line with University pay 
and grading arrangements. Furthermore, it is important that paid work, including any 
time spent on preparation, marking, and other activities directly supporting students, 
should be limited to a maximum of 7 hours per week averaged across a calendar year. 
This limit also applies to students with a student visa who have an additional restriction 
of only being allowed to work 20 hours in any one week, (it is important that students 
with a student visa take advice on any work restrictions at the point of undertaking 
contracts to work). This is a strict visa requirement and cannot be exceeded by 
averaging working hours over a number of weeks. Students who have asylum seeker 
status would have to have their right to work checked on an individual case-by-case 
basis. 
 
16. A right to work in the UK check must be completed for each PGR employed by 
Departments before they begin work. Details of this check should be recorded in the 
Department PGR teaching and teaching-related training register (Appendix A: 
Department/School PGR teaching and teaching-related training register). 
 
17. Any PGR who undertakes teaching (in any capacity) will receive a contract, with a 
guaranteed minimum number of hours, and this should be issued and signed before any 
work takes place. The University does not use zero-hours contracts under any 
circumstances. 
18. Information on how claims for payment can be made and who can authorise these 
payments should be made available by Departments to PGRs in teaching or 
teaching-related roles during their Faculty/Departmental induction and at appropriate 
times throughout the academic year.

--- PAGE 7 ---

5  
19. Payment to PGRs in teaching or teaching-related roles is issued using one of two 
methods: 
 
a. If a PGR is contracted for less than 100 hours per year, they will be paid through 
the Supplementary Payment System. 
b. If a PGR is contracted for more than 100 hours per year, they will be paid through 
Hourly Paid Employee Contracts. 
 
Regardless of the method for payment, the monthly deadline date for the submission of 
claims is the 5th to ensure payment is made within the next calendar month. 
Departments/ must ensure all payments are approved and processed in a timely manner. 
 
20. Further guidance and information on rates of pay for PGRs in teaching and teaching- 
related roles is available on the People Hub  . The payment of hourly rates for tutoring 
and demonstrating is based on grades 6 and 5 respectively of the University’s salary 
scale. 
21. PGRs are entitled to holiday payments equivalent to the rate of holidays that apply to 
staff. Holidays are paid at the appropriate rate and commensurate with time worked in 
any given pay period. 
 
22. Payment to PGRs should take account of the time required to prepare for and support 
teaching and teaching-related activities, such as but not limited to, grading work 
submitted for assessment and providing feedback, active preparation for teaching, time 
spent supporting students outside of teaching contact time. Time spent by PGRs 
engaged in mandatory training for teaching and teaching-related activities should also 
be paid. The core mandatory module should take a maximum of 4 hours to complete. Each 
activity attracting payment should be clearly demarcated in claims and payments (i.e. 
multipliers should not be used). 
 
23. The amount of time for preparation, marking and providing feedback will vary depending 
on the activity type and discipline but should be realistic, clear, justifiable, and 
communicated clearly to PGRs through the Department induction process. In order to 
enable consistency in the time allocated to marking, a baseline framework is provided 
below. 
 
Word length of assessment Marking time per item of assessment 
100 – 1000 words 2 minutes per 100 words 
1001 – 1500 words 20 minutes 
1501 – 2000 words 30 minutes 
2001 – 3000 words 45 minutes 
Departments will be able to assess and prescribe the necessary time required to undertake 
any duties associated with teaching and teaching-related activities in their Department and 
should communicate this clearly to PGRs to ensure claims for payment are fair and accurate. 
 
24. The Head of Department should nominate a member of staff to act as a point of contact 
for PGRs who have concerns regarding contracts, payments, or time and support 
assigned to teaching or teaching-related activities (e.g. if a PGR believes that the time 
assigned to complete an activity is insufficient then the Department should review this 
and/or provide additional training or support to ensure the work can be completed within 
the allotted time). The nominated member of staff should ensure the

--- PAGE 8 ---

6  
timely reporting to the appropriate Vice-Dean Academic of issues raised in their Department. 
 
25. Details of concerns about teaching and teaching-related matters that PGRs in teaching 
and teaching-related roles have reported to a Vice-Dean Academic (directly and 
indirectly) will be included in the Faculty Annual Review submitted to the Quality 
Assurance Committee with onward reporting to Senate. 
 
Grievance, Performance and Disciplinary Procedures 
26. PGRs who undertake paid employment are subject to the University’s Codes of 
Practice and Rules and procedures in relation to grievance,. Grievance and 
Disciplinary policies may apply to activities outside of the working environment even if 
they do not take place during working hours. PGRs should read these policies carefully 
prior to commencing the undertaking of duties. 
 
Ensuring Equality and Diversity 
27. The University is committed to encouraging equality, diversity and inclusion among its 
workforce, and eliminating unlawful discrimination. The aim is for staff and students to be 
truly representative of all sections of society, and for each person to feel respected and 
able to give their best to their work. It is the University’s expectation that all staff, 
students and visitors participate in the life of the University in a manner which ensures 
that everyone they encounter as a member of this community is treated with dignity and 
respect. In accordance with the stated value of being people-oriented the University 
expects members of the University community to uphold the core values of respect for 
others and equality of opportunity, openness, integrity, and honesty. 
 
28. More information about the University’s Equality and Diversity Policy is available online. 
 
Responsibilities 
PGRs undertaking teaching and teaching-related duties 
29. In order to effectively perform their teaching and teaching-related duties at the University, 
PGRs should: 
 
a. take the necessary steps to ensure that they are fully competent in the 
disciplinary knowledge and skills required by their allocated teaching or teaching- 
related duties, including, as a minimum, completing whatever training their 
Department considers mandatory; 
b. be committed to their own professional development, actively seeking out 
opportunities for development and support within their Department and the 
wider University; 
 
c. ensure they are punctual and well prepared for their specific duties; 
 
d. understand and adhere to the University’s expectations and policies around 
dignity and respect, safeguarding, and equality and diversity;

--- PAGE 9 ---

7  
e. constructively engage with and act upon feedback received from students they 
teach and support, their PGR peers in similar roles, and academic and 
professional services staff involved in the module and/or programme their 
teaching and teaching-related duties contributes to; and, 
f. ensure that they communicate to Module Leaders and/or Programme Directors 
any concerns they hold or which have been expressed to them by students 
relating to or arising from their teaching and teaching-related activities. 
 
University 
30. Departments will have a member of staff, nominated by the Head of Department, 
who is responsible for the coordination of teaching and teaching- related activities 
undertaken in that Department by PGRs. 
 
31. Overall responsibility for the teaching and assessment of modules and/or programmes 
supported by PGRs in teaching and teaching-related roles remains with the relevant 
Module Leader and/or Programme Director. 
32. Module Leaders and/or Programme Directors will provide PGRs  undertaking teaching 
and teaching-related duties with clear and comprehensive information and appropriate 
support and resources to enable them to carry out their duties effectively. 
 
33. Departments must ensure that adequate training and opportunities for developing 
disciplinary knowledge and skills and competence in teaching, assessment, and 
support are provided to PGRs in teaching and teaching-related roles, prior to the PGR 
undertaking those duties with students. 
 
34. The completion of mandatory training must be recorded in the Department PGR 
teaching and teaching-related training register (Appendix A). These registers must 
be submitted annually by Faculties to the University’s Quality Assurance Committee’s 
second meeting of the academic year. 
 
35. The Researcher Development Team will provide a list of students who have completed 
the core mandatory training module to each Faculty named contact prior to the start of 
Semester 1 and Semester 2 in each academic year.  
36. Departments should implement a monitoring and review process for PGRs in teaching 
and teaching-related roles with the aim of maintaining standards for students and 
providing clear and constructive feedback to PGRs. 
37. Directors or Heads of Learning and Teaching or their equivalent are responsible for 
ensuring that the contributions of PGRs to teaching and teaching-related activities 
in their Department adhere to expected standards for quality assurance set out in all 
Faculty and University policies, processes, and procedures. 
 
38. Departments must  ensure that payment claims submitted by PGRs in teaching and 
teaching-related roles are processed promptly and efficiently. 
 
39. Departments will ensure that the necessary identification checks, record keeping, 
and payment processes are carried out effectively for PGRs engaged in teaching 
and teaching-related duties in their Department.

--- PAGE 10 ---

8  
Training, development, and support 
40. In order to maintain the highest standards in the teaching, assessment, and support of 
students, and to facilitate career development and progression for PGRs in teaching and 
teaching-related roles, the University is committed to providing PGRs with opportunities 
and resources to develop their knowledge, skills, and experience in learning and 
teaching and the support of students. 
 
Induction and Training 
41. The University requires that all PGRs with teaching and teaching-related responsibilities 
receive appropriate training and guidance for their intended role. The nature, scope, and 
extent of training considered essential may vary across Departments, and the particular 
role undertaken, but the University requires all PGRs intending to support teaching to 
complete the core mandatory training before undertaking any teaching or teaching-
related duties. 
 
Core mandatory training for PGRs entering teaching or teaching-related roles is provided 
by the Researcher Development Team. Students should self-enroll onto the mandatory 
module by using the ‘Find a Class’ function in Myplace and search for ‘Postgraduate 
Research: Introduction to Teaching’  
42. It is the responsibility of the employing Department to ensure that PGRs participate in 
any additional training for teaching and teaching-related roles considered mandatory in 
that Department, and that PGRs are made fully aware of these and other optional 
training and development opportunities. 
43. PGRs in teaching or teaching-related roles should expect to receive an appropriate 
formal induction within their Department,  which is distinct from their general 
induction as a student to the University, that: 
 
a. helps to develop an understanding of their role, and the aims and objectives to 
which they will be working; 
b. details what knowledge, skills, and standards are required to perform their 
specified duties; 
c. provides guidance as to how they can continue their personal development whilst 
carrying out their role; 
 
d. provides essential training which meets legal obligations (e.g. Health and Safety, 
Equality and Diversity, Safeguarding); 
 
e. provides reference to key Human Resources policies and resources; 
 
f. provides guidance on who to contact and how to respond to students in distress or who 
disclose something to them. 
g. meets requirements of professional, statutory or regulatory bodies, where 
relevant; and, 
 
h. provides discipline-specific training on teaching, learning, assessment, and 
feedback, including assessment criteria and effective use of MyPlace. 
 
44. The details of PGRs in teaching or teaching-related roles who have successfully 
completed mandatory training and induction will be logged and maintained in a

--- PAGE 11 ---

9  
Department register. The register will be accessible to Module Leaders and Programme 
Directors and must be checked to verify that PGRs teaching on modules have completed 
the requisite training prior to undertaking teaching and teaching-related duties. The 
registers must also be submitted annually by Faculties to the University’s Quality Assurance 
Committee’s second meeting of the academic year. A template for a Departmental register 
for PGR mandatory training is included as Appendix A of this document. 
45. PGRs with concerns about the nature, scope, or quality of the training and/or support 
they have received within their Department should speak with their supervisor in the 
first instance, and if the matter remains unresolved should raise their concern with the 
Director or Head of Learning and Teaching (or equivalent). 
 
Professional development 
Feedback and review 
46. It is not appropriate for PGRs who teach to undertake the annual ADR process. 
However, Module Leaders and/or Programme Directors should ensure that mechanisms 
are in place to provide PGRs with useful feedback on their teaching and teaching-
related activities. Where issues are identified these will be managed by the Module 
Leader, with support from the relevant Programme Director where necessary. Such 
matters can also be referred on to the Director or Head of Learning and Teaching, or 
equivalent, where this is deemed necessary by the Programme Director. 
47. The outcome of any monitoring and review exercise will be promptly communicated to 
relevant PGRs with guidance on steps that can be taken to enhance performance and 
competence in areas identified as requiring development. Departments are required 
to provide reasonable support to PGRs undertaking steps to enhance their 
performance in teaching or teaching-related duties on the basis of monitoring and 
review activities. 
 
Strathclyde’s Teaching Excellence Programme 
48. PGRs employed in teaching and teaching-related roles are encouraged to attend 
relevant Strathclyde’s Teaching Excellence Programme (STEP) sessions and other 
training and development opportunities via the University’s Development and Training 
Gateway. Please note that, as these are optional development opportunities, no 
payment for attending this training will be made to PGRs. 
 
Opportunities for External Professional Accreditation 
49. PGRs in teaching and teaching-related roles should be encouraged and supported to 
pursue relevant external professional accreditation in recognition of their experience and 
expertise in teaching and teaching-related activities.  
 
50. All PGRs in teaching roles can apply for professional recognition from Advance HE 
through the University’s accredited pathway. PGR support follows an experiential 
pathway to Associate Fellow of the HEA. Support is provided by the Researcher 
Development Team and there is no fee to apply. PGRs can access support in the 
application process through the  Fellowships at Strathclyde Sharepoint Pages. 
Note that no payment will be made to PGRs who chose to engage in this optional 
activity..

--- PAGE 12 ---

10  
Appendix A: Department/School PGR teaching and teaching-related training register 
 
Department/School 
 Director of 
PG studies 
(or nominee) 
 PGR 
Administrator 
 
 
 
PGR name [and email] First Supervisor 
name [and email] 
Core Mandatory 
training 
Mandatory 
Department training 
(e.g. Induction; Health 
and Safety, etc.) 
Right to work in the UK check Notes 
Complete 
Y/N 
Date Complete 
Y/N 
Date Complete 
Y/N 
Date Checked by