--- PAGE 1 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Guidelines for Departmental Programme Handbooks 
Approved:  June 2009 
Updated:  October 2009, September 2015, October 2020 
1 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES FOR 
PROGRAMME 
HANDBOOKS 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
2.0 
Version 1 – 
approved by 
Senate June 
2009 
Version 1.1 
updated – 
Oct 2009 
Guidelines for 
Departmental 
Programme 
Handbooks 
Education 
Enhancement 
Minor refresh to 
QAC for 
information, Sept 
2015, October 2020 
Sept 2015 
Oct 2020 Version 2.0 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Guidelines for Departmental Programme Handbooks 
Approved:  June 2009 
Updated:  October 2009, September 2015, October 2020 
2 
  
 
The following is the suggested content for a Programme  Handbook. Handbooks should be 
produced for each year  of undergraduate study, and in some instances a separate handbook will 
be produced for postgraduate students, but all should contain the proposed content.  It is 
recognised that more detailed information may be re quired for first year students.  These 
handbooks must be issued to all students before or at the beginning of the academic year.  
 
It is recommended that all Handbooks are published on MyPlace. All handbooks should be signed 
off by the Head of Department (or appropriate nominee) before being published at the start of each 
academic year to ensure accuracy of information.  
 
It is recommended that references to online materials are used as much as possible to avoid 
duplication in hard copy.  
 
Programme Handbooks should make explicit reference to the Strathlife
 student pages.  
 
The Department/ School 
• Welcome by the Head of Department/ School 
• Faculty/ Departmental/ School structure chart 
• Location of off ices and key personnel contact details , including Advisers of Studies / 
Personal Development Advisors  Counsellors and departmental / school  contacts for 
students with disabilities  
• Departmental/ School  Health and Safety policy that is supplementary to the U niversity 
Health and Safety Policy should be identified 
 
Programme Dates and Attendance Requirements 
Programme and module dates to note eg assignment and dissertation dates , dates for placement, 
module and examination timetable information, dates for field trips  and laboratory work . If these 
dates are known they should be inserted here; if not available, a note should be included indicating 
how, when and where students will be informed of them.  Specific attendance requirements should 
also be noted here.   
 
Student engagement 
• Information on staff/ student committees 
• Details on how to both give and receive feedback 
• ‘Making the most of your Assessment and Feedback at Strathclyde’ booklet should be 
highlighted here and a link to the relevant web page 
http://www.strath.ac.uk/learnteach/informationforstudents/students/assessfeedback/
.  
 
Details of the Programme 
• Programme specification -  programme aims and objectives including intended learning 
outcomes 
• Programme regulations - programme information including compulsory and optional 
modules. This should either be lifted directly from the University Regulations which can be 
found here https://www.strath.ac.uk/studywithus/academicregulations/  or it should simply 
give this weblink. There must not be any variation in what is written within the handbooks 
and what is written within the University 
Regulations.  
• Details around MyPlace and how to access this.

--- PAGE 3 ---

University of Strathclyde   
 
Guidelines for Departmental Programme Handbooks 
Approved:  June 2009 
Updated:  October 2009, September 2015, October 2020 
3 
  
 
Policies  
• Programme policy on attendance and performance  
• Programme policy on absence – if different from University policy, if not refer students to 
the University Student Handbook  
• Link to Academic Policy webpages including: 
Personal Circumstances Procedure 
Academic Dishonesty Guide 
Voluntary Suspension Guidelines and Form 
Policy and Procedures on Fitness to Practise  
Student Discipline Procedure  
 
Learning, teaching and assessment 
• Brief description of main types of teaching used in programme delivery – lectures, 
seminars, tutorials, practicals etc 
• Programme progression – including method of assessment, programme monitoring and 
review, exams and information on the role of external examiners in the assessment process 
• Essay writing, including referencing and bibliographies  
• Dissertation information –  information about structure , supervision arrangements, credit 
value and assessment  
• How to submit an assignment electronically, including an explanation of Turnitin 
• How to request adjustments needed to learning, teaching and assessment required by 
disabled students 
 
Accessibility 
• Departments/ Schools  must endeavour to ensure that what is provided for students is 
equally accessible to all students.  
• Departments/ Schools  must be able to offer alternative formats of the handbook if 
requested.  
 
Learning resources 
• Descriptions and details of any learning resources provided by the University or the 
programme teams that are particularly relevant to the programme and how students should 
make use of these, referring to the University Handbook where relevant. 
• Departments/ Schools must ensure that Learning Resources are equally accessible to all 
students, including disabled students, and need to convey to students in the handbook their 
commitment to providing such accessible resources.  
 
Personal Development Planning  
Provide relevant information.  
 
Other programme information  
• Link to Student Support and Wellbeing 
• Details on prizes 
• Details on opportunities for exchanges, if any 
 
Handbooks should contain a caveat that we believe the information provided is correct at date of 
publishing but may be subject to revision. 
 
June 2009 
Revised 2015 
Minor revision October 2020