--- PAGE 1 ---

Institutional Rights  
Retention Policy for 
Research Publications 
 
 
 
Prepared by: Open Research Action Group (ORAG) 
Approved by: University Senate on the recommendation of the University Research 
& Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC). 
Route to approval: Recommended for onward consideration and approval by: 
• Research Sub-Committee (RSC) on 6 March 2025. 
• RKEC on15 April 2025. 
Date of approval: Approved by University Senate on 28 May 2025. 
Date effective: 29 May 2025. 
Version number: 1.1 
Previous versions: The first version of the IRRP was introduced in 
January 2024 (v1.0). 
Review process: To be reviewed as and when required by the ORAG. 
Related policies 
and procedures: 
Sector/Funder: 
UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Open Access Policy (Feb 2023) 
REF 2021: Overview of open access policy and guidance (Nov 2019) 
Coalition S 
University of Strathclyde: 
Intellectual Property and Commercialisation Policy (March 2023) 
Research Code of Practice (March 2023)Code of Practice for 
Postgraduate Research Students (Sept 2023)   
Open Access Policy (March 2025) 
Research Publications Guidance (Feb 2023) 
Research Data Management and Sharing Policy (March 2023)

--- PAGE 2 ---

Introduction 
1. This policy recognises that it is not necessary for an author to sign over their copyright or grant an 
exclusive licence to a publisher in order for their scholarly work to be published or disseminated. 
This policy sets out the steps authors should take to retain control over their published research to 
enable full Open Access. 
2. When publishing journal articles and other research outputs, authors at the University of Strathclyde 
have traditionally signed a copyright transfer agreement which assigns their copyright to academic 
publishers. This has resulted in many research publicat ions being under partial or complete 
ownership of the academic publishers. Reuse of the published work is subsequently controlled by 
the publishers while authors retain certain limited rights about when, where, how and with whom 
their output can be shared.  This approach is increasingly divergent from the principles of Open 
Research and funder expectations, including requirements for the Research Excellence Framework 
(REF). 
3. The University of Strathclyde is committed to the values, principles and culture of Open Research, 
as set out in our Open Research Statement . The term Open Research covers Open Access 
approaches to research outputs and data through open research platforms, tools and services. It 
includes the drive for greater collaboration and transparency within the research lifecycle with the 
aim to deliver im proved research quality and impact with greater engagement with the public. Not 
retaining the copyright of publications may diminish the extent to which a member of staff or 
postgraduate research student can make their work open.
  
4. To address the conflict between promoting Open Research and assigning partial or complete 
ownership of work to a publisher, this policy supports authors to retain rights to their work to allow 
them to increase the visibility of all their research outputs and comply with funding body requirements 
for Open Access.  
5. The purpose of this policy is to:  
• support authors to retain the copyright to their publications and comply with funder 
requirements; and 
• enable the University to disseminate its research and scholarship as widely as possible, whilst 
enabling its authors to publish their articles in a journal venue of their choice.    
6. Questions relating to this policy should be directed to the University’s Open Access team at 
openaccess@strath.ac.uk. 
Scope 
7. This policy applies to all authors or co -authors who are affiliated with the University of Strathclyde 
(hereafter ‘authors’). This includes postgraduate research students, subject to requirements of 
section 4.5 of the University’s Intellectual Property and Commercialisation Policy.
1  
8. This policy applies to all articles, authored or co- authored while the person is a member of staff or 
student at Strathclyde, including conference proceedings (with an ISSN) and any third-party content 
where rights in that content have been secured. Any ar ticles submitted for publication before the 
date of adoption of this policy are exempt.  
9. This policy applies to all Strathclyde articles regardless of whether they are published Gold Open 
Access or not. This is an extension of applicable funders’ Open Access policies, in which the Rights 
Retention mechanism only applies when there is no way to make an article Gold Open Access, 
either by paying an Article Processing Charge (APC) or via the University’s Read and Publish deals. 
To promote Open Research, Strathclyde has chosen to apply this this Institutional Rights Retention 
Policy to all journal articles and conference papers.  
 
1 See also Clauses 27-34 Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Students.

--- PAGE 3 ---

10. This policy only applies to first copyright (the right to control use which automatically arises when an 
individual or collective authors a work) in authored research publications. It does not extend to other 
intellectual property rights in research which are covered by the University’s Intellectual Property 
and Commercialisation Policy.  
11. This policy does not apply to monographs, books, book chapters, edited collections or other research 
outputs although the University strongly encourages authors to make them as openly available as 
possible.  
12. This policy does not apply to preprints. A preprint is a version of an article that precedes formal peer 
view and publication in an academic journal. 
Policy requirements 
13. The adoption of this Institutional Rights Retention Policy means that Strathclyde authors do not, as 
a rule, need to include a rights retention statement in their manuscript at point of submission to retain 
copyright. In addition, over 100 publishers, incl uding those used most frequently by Strathclyde 
researchers, have been formally notified that this policy is in effect. Generally, therefore, no specific 
wording needs to be added to the acknowledgements section of the manuscript for a Creative 
Commons Attribution (CC BY) licence to be applied to the full -text accepted manuscript once the 
submission is accepted by the journal.  
Where a funder requires it, or if a publisher has not been notified about the IRRP, authors should 
include the following wording in the acknowledgements section of the manuscript: 
‘For the purpose of open access, the author(s) has applied a Creative Commons Attribution 
(CC BY) licence to any Author Accepted Manuscript version arising from this submission.’ 
Authors are advised to check with the Open Access team at openaccess@strath.ac.uk  if they are 
unsure if the wording should be included in the manuscript. 
14. Upon acceptance for publication, each author with a responsibility for the research agrees to grant 
the University a non-exclusive, irrevocable, worldwide licence to make the accepted manuscript of 
each article publicly available under the terms of a CC BY  licence. The licence is granted to the 
University by uploading a copy of the full -text accepted manuscript in Pure, whereupon the 
manuscript will be deposited in the Strathprints institutional repository to satisfy the technical, 
compliance, and discovery requirements of relevant open access policies. 
15. The University will make the full -text of the AAM publicly available on the date of first online 
publication  
(or the conference end date for conference proceedings) under a CC BY licence. 
16. The University recognises that there may be cases, and outside of an individual’s control, where it 
is not possible to follow all aspects of this policy. Examples include: 
• An alternative Creative Commons licence  may be used on the deposited AAM where a funder 
allows it, or if there is no external funder mandate or REF requirement. The author must inform 
the Open Access team of their preference for an alternative licence. 
• If removal of third -party content would make the AAM unsuitable for sharing, an exception will 
apply and the AAM will be retained as ‘closed’ access in Pure and Strathprints. 
• If an existing contract with a publisher has been signed that prevents compliance with this policy, 
an opt-out may be considered. Potential alternatives may be available, including negotiating with 
publishers on amending copyright licences. Appropriate support will be provided if/where needed 
by the University’s Copyright Officer 
• Institutional authors should bring the need to meet the Institutional Rights Retention Policy 
requirements to the attention of their co-authors as early as possible in the publishing cycle. If full 
compliance turns out not to be feasible, there may be an option to apply an opt-out. 
In such cases, it will be permissible for authors to voluntarily opt out of the requirement for immediate 
open access upon publication, or the assignation of a CC BY licence. This, however, may cause the

--- PAGE 4 ---

research publication to be non-compliant with funder policies or ineligible for future REF exercises. 
To opt out, authors must contact the Open Access team at openaccess@strath.ac.uk.   
Related policies and guidance 
17. This policy aligns with clause 4.5 of the University’s Intellectual Property and Commercialisation 
Policy which states that authors own the copyright to their scholarly works and grant the University 
a perpetual and royalty -free licence to use such Scholarly Rights for non- commercial teaching, 
research and academic purposes.  
18. This policy should be read in conjunction with the related University policies and guidelines listed on 
the cover page.