--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
INTER
NAL REVIEW FRAMEWORK 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 
Version 
No. 
Description Author Approval Effective 
Date 
1.0 Framework describing 
how the University 
internally reviews its 
provision 
Directorate of 
Education 
Enhancement 
Education 
Strategy 
Committee 
December 
2021 
2.0 Revised to reflect recent 
external regulatory 
changes ie TQEF; the 
introduction of our new 
approach to Professional 
Services Review; 
updating of hyper-links 
and minor wording 
changes for clarity;   
removal of references to 
Schools; and to address 
the 2024/25 SEAP action 
regarding  review of the 
existing approaches 
to annual programme 
monitoring, a new 
Annual Programme 
Monitoring Report 
Template added as an 
appendix. 
Directorate of 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate June 2025

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
TABLE OF CONTENTS .............................................................................................................. 2 
INTRODUCTION .......................................................................................................................... 3 
ANNUAL PROGRAMME MONITORING .................................................................................. 3 
FACULTY ANNUAL REPORTS ................................................................................................. 4 
QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW OF ACADEMIC PROVISION ..................................................... 4 
TRANSFORMING THE EXPERIENCE OF STUDENTS THROUGH ASSESSMENT 
(TESTA) ......................................................................................................................................... 5 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REVIEW ................................................................................... 5 
MODULE EVALUATION ............................................................................................................. 5 
QAC MONITORING ACTIVITIES .............................................................................................. 6 
POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH STUDENT MONITORING ................................................. 6 
APPENDIX 1 – ANNUAL PROGRAMME MONITORING ...................................................... 7 
APPENDIX 2 – ANNUAL PROGRAMME MONITORING REPORT TEMPLATE .............. 8

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
INTRODUCTION 
1. Scotland’s Tertiary Quality Enhancement Framework (TQEF) is the enhancement-led
appr
oach to quality in Scottish higher and further education. TQEF supports institutions 
in managing the quality of the student learning experience. It also provides public 
confidence in academic standards and the quality of the student experience. There are 
five interconnected delivery mechanisms within the TQEF that, taken together, provide 
assurance on quality and support institutional and sector wide enhancement.1 The 
annual Self-Evaluation and Action Plan (SEAP) process and periodic Tertiary Quality 
Enhancement Review (TQER) are two of the main mechanisms for external assurance 
of the quality of teaching and learning and the student experience. Institution-led quality 
activity is a further mechanism, fundamental to the TQEF. The Scottish Funding Council 
expects all institutions to put in place arrangements and operate systems of annual 
monitoring and periodic review which are necessary for evaluating their provision. The 
University of Strathclyde utilises several methods to review its provision and the student 
experience, and this Internal Review Framework is designed to provide an overview of 
these activities. Evidence from these internal review activities enables the University to 
highlight and share good practice, determine areas for development and to evidence the 
outcome of internal review activities as part of the TQEF and the TQER process.  
2. Th
 e Internal Review Framework describes the monitoring and evaluation processes in
pl
ace to review core practices, the outcomes of which are used to drive improvement 
and enhancement, in line with the UK Quality Code of Higher Education.  
3.
 This Framework should be read in conjunction with the following documents:
a.
 Policy & Procedure for the Quinquennial Review of Academic Provision;
b. Policy on Faculty Annual Reports;
c. Student Module Evaluation Policy;
d. Professional  Services Review.
ANNUAL PROGRAMME MONITORING 
4. Annual Programme Monitoring is undertaken annually by programme teams who are
tas
ked with producing programme-level reports. 
5.
 The aim of Annual Programme Monitoring is to contribute to the maintenance of
s
tandards and the enhancement of learning and teaching through the regular scrutiny of 
the University’s programmes. Annual Monitoring also seeks to identify good practice and 
to encourage staff to reflect on enhancements to the student learning experience.  
6.
 Annual Programme Monitoring Reports, see Appendix 1 for details, form part of the
supporting information set for Quinquennial Reviews of Academic Provision and are also 
utilised by Faculties in the preparation of the Faculty Annual Reports, which are 
subsequently scrutinised by Quality Assurance Committee (QAC) and the Learning 
Enhancement Committee (LEC). 
7.
 To support consistency in the process across Departments and Faculties, the Annual
Programme Monitoring Template (Appendix 2) should be used to compile the annual 
programme monitoring report.  
8. The Quality Enhancement and Assurance Team (QEAT) will request samples of
c
ompleted Annual Programme Monitoring Reports from time to time in support of the 
1 TQER Guide for Institutions (see: page 6)

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
U
niversity’s internal and external quality assurance processes and regulatory duties (for 
example, as set out in the TQEF or requested for the SEAP or TQER).  
FACULTY ANNUAL REPORTS 
9. The Faculty Annual Report (FAR) process is focused on reflecting on the Faculty’s
activities to enhance learning and teaching and to confirm that appropriate quality 
assurance mechanisms are in place across the Faculty.  
10.
 The FAR Template is designed to focus on the Faculty’s enhancement activities and
r
eflect on how these contribute to the delivery of overall strategic priorities. FARs present 
a valuable resource for sharing good practice. The reflection and action detailed within 
the Reports provide a critical link between Institutional and local oversight of learning and 
teaching activities. 
11.
 QAC approves the FAR Template at its first meeting of the academic year and confirms
a timeline for submission. Once submitted, the FARs are peer reviewed by a Sub-Team 
of QAC, comprised of the Vice-Deans (Academic) and Faculty Academic Quality 
representatives and facilitated by QEAT. This peer review meeting is used to identify key 
themes across each of the FARs which results in the production of a Thematic Summary 
Report. The Thematic Report also identifies priorities for the following academic year at 
both Institution and Faculty level. 
12.
 Following the peer review process, FARs are updated to reflect feedback received. Final
Reports are then submitted to the annual, joint meeting of QAC and LEC, together with 
the Thematic Summary Report, for discussion and formal approval.  
13.
 The key themes arising from the Thematic Report are used as the basis for discussion at
the j
oint meeting, with any Faculty-specific points highlighted as appropriate. 
14. For further information on the FAR process, including timelines and a link to the FAR
template, please refer to the Policy on Faculty Annual Reports. 
QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW OF ACADEMIC PROVISION 
15. Quinquennial Review of Academic Provision (QQR) is a holistic review of an academic
Department’s academic provision, student experience and wider strategic aims. A 
Review Panel is established to review a Self-Evaluation Document, produced by the 
Department, and subsequently meet with a representative group of students and key 
staff from within the Department. The Review Panel then produces a report that is a 
balanced account of strengths, challenges, opportunities and risks, and makes both 
commendations and recommendations, which the Department is required to respond to 
directly after the review and 12 months later.  
16.
 The Quinquennial Review Report and the follow-on 12-month update are reported to
Q
AC for approval at the first meeting of each academic year. Emerging themes from 
QQRs inform the University’s annual SEAP process. 
17.
 Each QQR includes scrutiny of all credit-bearing provision at undergraduate and
pos
tgraduate level for all modes of study. Any collaborative provision, Continuing 
Professional Development and continuing education provision, is also scrutinised by the 
QQR Panel, as is the supervision and experience of postgraduate research students.

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
18.
 The Policy & Procedure for Quinquennial Review of Academic Provision contains full
details of the process, including timelines, templates and guidance. 
TRANSFORMING THE EXPERIENCE OF STUDENTS THROUGH 
ASSESSMENT (TESTA) 
19. The University’s Quinquennial Review process incorporates TESTA as an optional part
of its methodology. TESTA is a programme-level educational research and development 
exercise which may be undertaken by the academic Department in the year prior to their 
scheduled Quinquennial Review. A set of self-assessment resources have been made 
available for departments looking to make use of TESTA and additional guidance can be 
provided by the Quality Enhancement and Assurance Team if required.  
20.
 TESTA seeks to provide programme teams with detailed analyses of students'
reflections on how assessment and feedback practices shape their learning experience. 
The focus of TESTA is on supporting programme teams to identify areas of good 
practice and areas for development and to facilitate discussions and actions which 
address these. 
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REVIEW 
21. Professional Services Review (PSR) is a quality enhancement and assurance process
that focuses on all services contributing to the student experience and is designed to be 
holistic and forward-looking. Approaches within the Institution are reviewed, and best 
practices and emerging initiatives from across the sector inform discussions.  
22.
 Provision for students is evaluated through an annual reporting model that is data-
informed and encourages focused reflection and reporting on the student experience to 
ensure the University is providing high-quality support to students. The annual reports 
are submitted for review by a sub-group of the Education Strategy Committee.  
23.
 Professional Services Review is also intended as a means of identifying common
them
es across the Institution and potential opportunities for further enhancement and 
alignment of provision. A key themes paper is produced annually and shared with the 
Directors of Professional Services, Education Strategy Committee and Senate. The 
review process is driven by self-evaluation and reflection, with an enhancement-led 
approach and is aligned with the annual SEAP process. Please refer to the Professional 
Services Review web page for further information. 
MODULE EVALUATION 
24. The fundamental purpose of Student Module Evaluation is to enhance teaching and
learning, and the experience of students, through a clear and consistent institutional 
approach with agreed procedures for gathering, analysing, acting upon and responding 
directly to student feedback. Student Module Evaluation is required to take place 
across all undergraduate and postgraduate taught credit-bearing modules.  
25.
 Module-level feedback from students is gathered via Myplace (the University’s Virtual
Learning Environment) as part of online and face-to-face learning and teaching delivery.  
Module evaluations can take place at mid-semester, at end-of-semester, or at both mid- 
and end-of-semester. A summer semester evaluation option is also available for 
modules that do not follow the two-semester calendar.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
26. For further information on student module evaluation, including timelines, the 
responsibilities of staff and students and the types of reports that are produced and 
available within the system, please refer to the Student Module Evaluation Policy. 
 
QAC MONITORING ACTIVITIES 
27. Senate has overall responsibility for institutional standards and quality of the University’s 
awards and the academic standing of the University. QAC has delegated authority from 
Senate to review and assess academic standards and regularly reports its activities to 
Education Strategy Committee (ESC) and Senate. It does this by annually monitoring 
and assessing trends of the following key areas:  
 
a. Student Journeys 
b. Summaries and analysis of External Examiners’ annual reports and department 
responses. 
c. Programme Regulations 
d. Quinquennial Review 
e. Module Evaluation Reports 
f. NSS or PTES Results 
g. Outcomes from the annual joint meeting of QAC and CPA Subgroup 
h. Analysis of Module Monitoring Exercise 
i. Overview and analysis of Senate discipline and appeals cases 
j. Review of student exchange activity 
k. Faculty Annual Reports 
l. Outcomes from the annual joint meeting of QAC and LEC 
 
28. QAC receives an annual Student Journeys Report which provides an overview of 
patterns of student recruitment, retention, progression and outcomes at all levels of 
study. These are reviewed at QAC by looking at trends across previous academic years.  
 
29. QAC has institutional oversight of the external examining appointment and reporting 
process, while scrutiny of external examiners’ reports is primarily undertaken within 
programme teams and other faculty/department platforms. QAC receives an annual 
report which contains an analysis of external examiner feedback based on annual 
reports from the previous years’ reporting cycle, including a summary report, numerical 
breakdown of responses, and extracts of external examiner reports. There is an 
expectation that summaries of external examiner reports and the department responses 
are made available to students and discussed via Student-Staff Liaison Committees. 
 
30. In addition, QAC has oversight of the review and approval of new/revised programme 
regulations. The administrative process of reviewing the regulations is 
overseen/managed by staff from the Quality Enhancement and Assurance Team (QEAT) 
and faculty representatives, with QAC confirming final approval. The University’s general 
and programme regulations for all levels of study can be found in the General and 
Programme Regulations.  
 
POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH STUDENT MONITORING  
31. Regular monitoring of research student progress and supervision is carried out at 
department and/or Faculty level in accordance with the University’s Code of Practice of 
Postgraduate Research Study and the Postgraduate Research Monitoring Framework. 
 
32. The University maintains oversight of postgraduate research student progression and 
supervision. Outcomes of this process are also considered as part of Quinquennial 
Review of Departments.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
APPENDIX 1 – ANNUAL PROGRAMME MONITORING 
1.
 For each of the University’s award bearing undergraduate and postgraduate taught
pr
ogrammes, the Programme Team monitors the effectiveness of the programme and 
produces an annual programme monitoring report that is reviewed by the relevant 
Faculty on an annual basis.  
2. The detailed processes used by Departments and Faculties for producing and reviewing
the annual
 programme monitoring report may differ, however the University expects that 
the review will be based on the following common features:  
a.
 T he report includes consideration of student feedback, external examiners
reports, accreditation reports and input from other stakeholders together with an 
account of follow-up actions resulting from these inputs; 
b. T he Faculty Academic Committee with delegated authority from the Board of
S
tudy, ensures there is a process of annual review in place for all programme 
reports and that any summary paperwork is held in the Faculty Office; 
c. D epartments or the Programme Team hold any associated detailed
doc
umentation associated with annual programme monitoring/review; 
d. O utcomes of the process are considered in the Quinquennial Reviews of
Depar
tments and inform the Faculty Annual Reports. 
3.
 In preparing the annual monitoring report, the Programme Director/Programme Team
considers the effectiveness of the programme in terms of: 
a.
 L earning, teaching and assessment strategies;
b. Student recruitment and outcomes ;
c. Student employability, professional and careers education;
d. PSRB required competencies as appropriate;
e. Reference to Subject Benchmark Statements; and
f. Equality, Diversity, Inclusion and Widening Access policies.
4.
 Evidence reviewed by Programme Teams in producing the annual programme
m
onitoring report should include, but is not limited to: 
a.
 Programme Specifications;
b. Programme/Department/ Student Handbooks, curriculum, assessment strategy;
c. Recruitment statistics;
d. Student Outcomes Data – this is provided to Departments and Faculties via
SUnBIRD (Strathclyde University Business Intelligence Reports and Dashboards) 
system and the Student Journeys Dashboard; 
e. Information on subsequent employment of students;
f. Student feedback (module/programme evaluation questionnaires, student/staff
c
ommittees etc.); 
g. External Examiners’ reports and Departmental responses;
h. Outcomes of external reviews by QAA, Professional Bodies etc.
5.
 The template provided in Appendix 2 should be used to produce the annual report for
review by Faculty Academic Committee and completed reports held in the Faculty Office 
for a period of 7 years.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
APPENDIX 2 – ANNUAL PROGRAMME MONITORING REPORT 
TEMPLATE2 
Notes for completion: Programme teams should review and consider the data sources appropriate 
to their context which help evidence good practice or the focus for enhancement in learning, 
teaching and assessment. The underlying data and evidence sources should be referenced, but do 
not need to be repeated in the document. Instead, programme teams are asked to reflect on the 
evidence they have drawn upon to evaluate the programme and identify any actions. 
PROGRAMME(S): 
(Multiple programmes may be included 
on one form, e.g. Sept and Jan intakes, 
but any actions should be specific about 
which programmes they refer to.) 
 
Completed by:   DATE:  
Accredited by (or N/A):  
Academic year:  
Student Recruitment. Review your student recruitment statistics on Pegasus (number, equality data 
(eg age, gender, ethnicity, disability data etc.)) Note and explain, if applicable, any recurring issues or 
variances over the previous 3 years.  
[NOTE: this section should include references to admissions via RPL and articulation if applicable]. 
Comment here on any notable data trends or observations - eg Ongoing decline in student numbers; 
large increase in overseas students in the previous year etc. (There is no need to replicate dashboard 
data here, though figures could be added to those comments to provide context - eg 50% increase in 
overseas recruitment from 50 to 75 students in the previous year). 
 
Student Outcomes. Review your students’ progression, retention, completion, awards data and 
Graduate Outcomes using the Student Journey Dashboard and/or SUnBIRD.  
Highlight and explain, if applicable, any recurring issues or variances over the previous 3 years. This 
section should also reflect on differences in outcomes for different student demographic groups.  
[NOTE: you should take account of the potential effect of small sample sizes when considering this 
data – fewer than 10 students in a given group is considered a small sample size] 
Comment here on any notable data trends or observations - eg After a drop in student ‘Good Degree’ 
awards, for two consecutive years, the proportion of students achieving a First or 2:1 has improved. 
(There is no need to replicate dashboard data here, though figures could be added to those 
comments to provide context - eg 5 percentage point increase in students achieving ‘Good Degrees’ 
from 78 percent to 83 percent compared to the previous year). 
 
 
2 Note: Graduate and Degree apprenticeship programmes are reviewed annually in line with GADA 
requirements and make use of a separate template

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 
Student Feedback.  Provide a high level summary of student feedback obtained over the past year 
(from module evaluations, NSS, PTES, SSLC, etc.). Highlight and explain, if applicable, any recurring 
issues, improvements or changes from previous years. 
External Examiners. Review and reflect on feedback from your External Examiner reports. Highlight 
any positive or negative comments. 
Impact of External Factors. Consider any external factors that have impacted the programme, such 
as industrial action, placement provision, outcomes as a result of review by or changes in PSRB, 
subject benchmark statements or regulatory requirements etc. 
Faculty/Institutional Priorities. Reflect on how the programme aligns with the Faculty’s and 
University’s broader strategic priorities, such as student support, diversity, and inclusion etc. Any 
outcomes of QQR that affect the programme should also be noted here. Any further enhancement 
activities related to the programme not noted in other sections can be reported here. (e.g., new 
module offerings, new staff expertise, staff general reflection on the programme etc). 
If any other departments/faculties contribute modules to the programme, have any changes to 
those modules impacted on the programme?

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
 
Annual Programme Action Plan 20XX – 20XX 
The 
programme action plan should link directly to the reflection on the evidence outlined above. This action plan should be a live document utilised by the 
programme team to focus on strategic quality assurance and enhancement activities and associated learning, teaching and assessment strategies on an 
ongoing basis. The timeline for the completion of actions should be suited to the nature of the activity and the context of the programme. Guidance, 
included in blue font in the table below, should be deleted prior to submission.  
Area for enhancement or development3 Action(s) and planned impact/ outcomes Milestone(s)/ target date(s), 
continuing/ carried forward (c/f) 
Responsible/ 
Lead 
Example: 
Student Feedback (NSS and Module 
Evaluation): Improve timeliness of 
feedback across all modules. 
Example: 
Remind all module leaders of the timescales for 
providing feedback and the process for informing 
students if this deadline will not be met.  
Outcome: Improved module and NSS student 
feedback on timeliness of feedback. 
It is not expected that all actions 
will be completed in one year. If 
an action is continuing or has been 
carried forward from a previous 
year, this should be noted here. 
Use post titles 
here rather than 
individual 
names. 
3 Please reference evidence upon which changes are being introduced, e.g. student feedback, reflection on RPO data, external changes from PRSB, subject benchmark 
statements etc.