--- PAGE 1 ---

LEARNING ANALYTICS 
POLICY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A policy for the use 
of student learning 
analytics at the 
University. 
Education 
Enhancement 
Approved by Senate 
31/05/23.  
Academic year 
2023/24 
onwards 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC01526
 
Version 1.0

--- PAGE 2 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
Table of Contents  
Introduction ................................................................................................................................................................ 3 
Learning Analytics: Definition .................................................................................................................................... 3 
Purpose of Learning Analytics ................................................................................................................................... 3 
Learning Analytics Policy Scope ............................................................................................................................... 4 
Principles ................................................................................................................................................................... 4 
Learning Insights ....................................................................................................................................................... 5 
Data Sources and How We Use Your Data ........................................................................................................... 5 
Analysis and Interpretation of Learning Analytics Data ............................................................................................. 6 
Data Retention and Archiving .................................................................................................................................... 7 
Glossary of Terms ..................................................................................................................................................... 8 
Appendix: Ethics Framework ................................................................................................................................... 11 
Introduction........................................................................................................................................................... 11 
Outline of an ethical framework ........................................................................................................................... 11 
References ........................................................................................................................................................... 13

--- PAGE 3 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
Introduction 
1. Learning Analytics is an enhancement-led activity, providing assistive tools for staff to support students 
and to identify enhancements to learning and teaching.  It brings together insights derived from student 
activity on learning systems, student voice and staff activity for and on behalf of students. 
 
2. This policy supports a student-centric view of learning, empowering staff to take appropriate and tailored 
follow-up action to support students.  Learning analytics can also be used for data-informed 
enhancement by informing learning design (see Glossary) based on a broader understanding of student 
learning activity and student support requirements. 
 
3. Learning analytics leverages data about student learning behaviour, demographic data and student voice 
data to provide staff with immediate insights into student engagement and feedback at module, 
programme and institutional level. This will allow staff to understand student activity and identify areas to 
target student support if appropriate. 
 
4. Learning analytics sits at the heart of our contextualised, data-informed approach to enhancement, 
informing decision-making and providing greater understanding of the student experience.  This is 
brought together with existing attainment, assessment and feedback data, and student voice, to give a 
broader understanding of student experience and support needs within the context of their learning.  
 
5. This policy sets out the University’s approach to the use of learning analytics, including the Learning 
Insights dashboards (see Glossary). 
 
6. This Policy should be read in conjunction with the University’s Assessment and Feedback Policy,  Student 
Guidance on the Use of Social Media and Virtual Learning Environments, the Student Module Evaluation 
Policy, the Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Policy, Dignity and Respect Policy, the Student Representation 
Policy, the Student Discipline Procedure and the University’s Data Protection Policy, which can be 
accessed from the University’s Data Protection pages on the website. 
 
7. Staff members using the Learning Insights dashboards must also read this Policy in conjunction with the 
staff guidance and information provided for the interpretation and use of learning analytics data.  
Learning Analytics: Definition 
8. The University defines Learning Analytics as: The legal and ethical collection, measurement, analysis, 
reporting and use of data about learners and their contexts, for the purposes of understanding and 
enhancing learning, and supporting students.  
Purpose of Learning Analytics 
9. Learning analytics has as its purpose understanding and enhancing learning environments and assisting 
staff to support students.   
 
10. Understanding and enhancing learning environments includes, but is not limited to: 
a. Reviewing activity on the Learning Management System classes, to understand how students 
use this platform and how this varies;  
b. Reflecting on and making changes to learning design, teaching or programme design as part of 
the approach to enhancement of the curriculum and broader student experience;  
c. Analysing student feedback to identify areas of strength and for improvement;  
d. Identifying, with a view to addressing, systematic variation in student experiences across 
demographic and other characteristics.

--- PAGE 4 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
 
11. Effectively supporting students may include, but is not limited to:  
a. Analysing students’ activity on the Learning Management System to identify patterns in how they 
use this platform and tailor learning provision;  
b. Informing nuanced learning support conversations between staff and students 
 
12. Learning analytics may also be used in addition to existing approaches to assist staff in monitoring 
compliance relating to specific legal obligations (e.g. Visa compliance), module or programme 
requirements and/or to support specific programme accreditation requirements (e.g. minimum 
attendance requirements) 
Learning Analytics Policy Scope 
13. This policy covers Learning Insights (see Glossary) that provide insight on the student experience by 
presenting student engagement, student voice, and/or student attainment data. 
 
14. This policy also covers the principles to be applied to any and all other learning analytics activities 
undertaken within the University.  
Principles 
15. Any learning analytics activity undertaken within the University must be enhancement-led in accordance 
with Point 9 above 
 
16. Learning analytics activities undertaken by the University will be human-centred; that is to say that the 
people who will use and be affected by the analytics system will be consulted throughout its 
development, including in identifying requirements, defining indicators and user testing. Consultation 
should include both University staff (e.g. as direct users of Learning Insights dashboards) and students 
(e.g. as individuals directly affected by learning analytics activities). 
 
17. Ethics shall underpin all learning analytics activities undertaken at the University, taking into account the 
key themes of responsibility, transparency, privacy, inclusion and accuracy as identified in the Ethics 
Framework.  In particular, ethics must be applied at all stages of learning analytics development.  
 
18. The University’s approach to learning analytics supports data-informed decision making by providing staff 
with relevant data, which will allow them to better understand, monitor, and explore student learning 
activity, to interpret this data with reference to their own knowledge and experience, and to make 
decisions based on these interpretations.  Therefore, learning analytics should not replace individuals’ 
judgments with those of an algorithm or predictive model.   
 
19. While some automated outputs may inform wider conversations or analysis, the dashboards will not be 
designed or used to make automated decisions (see Glossary
) or to explicitly recommend a course of 
action about a student’s attainment or progression (see also Point 41). 
 
20. Learning analytics considers student activity on University systems such as the Learning Management 
System (LMS), therefore it only partly represents student activity related to academic engagement and 
learning.  It does not capture engagement via offline study, use of on-campus spaces such as the Library 
and labs or engagement with peers.  Similarly, it is important to understand that student activity patterns 
do not equate to a measure of learning.  Decisions informed by learning analytics must take the 
limitations of this data into account.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
Learning Insights   
21. Learning analytics data is provided to University staff through Learning Insights .  This service is owned 
and operated by the Education Enhancement Directorate in collaboration with ISD .  Insights provided 
include student voice dashboards (including Student Module Evaluation and Student Surveys), and 
engagement dashboards providing high level indicators and/or focussed insights around a particular 
theme or activity.  Where analytics crosses over into Business Intelligence, Education Enhancement will 
work with Strategy & Planning to ensure alignment and adherence to agreed data definitions. 
 
22. Principles 24-27 below apply specifically to the design and use of Learning Insights dashboards, however 
they are also applicable to other learning analytics activities and must be followed where possible and 
practical: 
 
23. Potential ways in which the presentation of learning analytics data may bias decision making must be 
taken into account and mitigated as far as possible (e.g. through the design of data visualisations such 
as dashboards and/or the provision of support and resources to users).  
 
24. Student voice data (see Glossary) provides a valuable perspective on aspects of engagement in learning 
activities, helping to provide a broader view of the student experience by including the student 
perspective.  Therefore learning analytics can bring together student voice with activity data where 
relevant. 
 
25. Student voice data used in learning analytics (e.g. within Learning Insights dashboards) will be shown in 
aggregated form, i.e. responses will not be attributable to individual students.   
 
26. Student voice data may be displayed in survey or thematic student voice dashboards or within a wider 
dashboard combining other data e.g. engagement.  No individual survey responses will be identifiable 
from any student voice data sources that are shown in the dashboards.  
 
Data Sources and How We Use Your Data 
27. All student and staff data in Learning Insights dashboards is gathered and processed in accordance with 
Data Protection legislation, as set out in the University’s Student Privacy Notice, the University’s Privacy 
Notice – Staff and Other Categories and where relevant the Student Module Evaluation Privacy Notice.   
 
28. Data sources used in the Learning Insights dashboards include, but are not limited to: the Learning 
Management System, Student Module Evaluation data, Student Survey data and the Enterprise Data 
Warehouse.  All data is held securely and access to each of these data sources is restricted to members 
of University staff who require it in order to carry out their role.   
 
29. Engagement dashboards at both module and programme level, by their nature, require students to be 
identifiable.  The information presented in Learning Insights is already available to specified members of 
staff (e.g. Department/Faculty staff and some administrative colleagues) via the Learning Management 
System logs, however it will be visualised in dashboards to facilitate more meaningful insight into student 
learning behaviour and support needs.   
 
30. An individual student’s personal characteristics (e.g. demographic information) will never be shown 
alongside their activity on a module or Programme.   
 
31. Special category data
 is held separately and reported on at an aggregate level only, with data grouped at 
a suitably high level to ensure that no individual can be identified.

--- PAGE 6 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
 
32. Users of the Learning Insights dashboards do not have access to any additional underlying data sources 
e.g. the Enterprise Data Warehouse or individual survey response data.  Similarly, access to the 
Learning Insights dashboards does not grant access to view an individual student’s special category 
data.   
 
33. Visibility of Programme-level insights which identify individual students will be limited to Head of 
Department/School and other nominated individuals.  This may include Directors of Teaching, Faculty 
level and Professional Services staff and other staff taking a pastoral role in a Programme or 
Department/School.   
 
34. The Learning Insights Procedures provide further information on the management of the Learning 
Insights dashboards. 
Analysis and Interpretation of Learning Analytics Data 
35. Principles 37-45 detailed below apply to the analysis and interpretation of data presented in Learning 
Insights dashboards, however they must also be applied to the wider learning analytics activities 
undertaken within the University. 
 
36. Learning analytics data is most valuable when it is used to drive, inform and support wider conversations 
with both staff and students to maximise the potential for enhancement.  Where decisions are taken with 
partial reference to learning analytics data, this must always come after a process of active dialogue with 
the staff/students affected, aimed at supporting the affected individuals in the first instance. 
 
37. While it is a valuable source of insight learning analytics data brings with it limitations, some of which are 
outlined in the points below.  The presentation of learning analytics data must be accompanied by 
contextual information and/or guidance notes to aid user interpretation.  Similarly, users must familiarise 
themselves with the guidance provided prior to taking any further action based on data presented in 
Learning Insights dashboards or other learning analytics. 
 
38. Consideration must be given to the learning analytics information being presented relative to programme 
and/or curriculum design; specifically how representative this is of all activity on a programme and the 
different ways that students could, or are expected to, engage with their studies.  
 
39. The behavioural engagement indicators provided in the Learning Insights dashboards are predominantly 
focussed on Learning Management System activity; other student engagement activity such as labs, 
group work, Library visits and other offline study methods are not provided.  Therefore, the engagement 
insights displayed in the dashboards must not be taken as a proxy measure of a student’s overall 
engagement in their studies as it is necessary to consider the wider context.   
 
40. Learning analytics data provides only a partial and contextually-variable indicator of student engagement.  
Therefore it must not be used as the primary or sole basis or evidence for a decision affecting an 
outcome for a student or a member of staff and for adaptations to modules and programmes.   
 
41. Engagement dashboards present behavioural engagement, however this does not equate to a n indicator 
of learning.  Similarly, high levels of behavioural engagement does not necessarily imply that a particular 
learning outcome will be attained. 
 
42. Similarly learning analytics insights do not constitute a measure of staff teaching practice or performance, 
nor does student engagement provide an indicator of teaching quality.

--- PAGE 7 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
 
43. Learning analytics data pertaining to students who require particular adaptations to support their learning 
(e.g. students with certain types of disability) may look different to the typical data for the class or cohort.  
This is important to bear in mind when interpreting such data, as patterns and behaviours may not be 
directly comparable with those of other students or the class as a whole. 
 
44. Student voice data (including survey responses and other feedback mechanisms) is, by definition, self-
selecting therefore may not represent the views of an entire cohort of students.  Information and 
guidance relating to methodologies used, including sampling and validity of results, is presented 
alongside student voice reports to aid with interpretation.  The Student Surveys SharePoint site provides 
details of the methodology used in each of the main student surveys run at the University.  
Data Retention and Archiving 
45. Data held within the Learning Insights dashboards will be in accordance with agreed retention periods, 
taking into account relevant data protection considerations.  Personal data will be 
pseudonymised/anonymised at the earliest possible opportunity, where appropriate.   
 
46. Data held within the Learning Insights dashboards will be regularly refreshed to reflect changes made 
through University systems.  Therefore, any changes made to an individual student’s record may not be 
instantaneously reflected in learning analytics.

--- PAGE 8 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
Glossary of Terms  
There are many similar and sometimes overlapping terms used within the sector related to learning analytics 
(e.g. curriculum analytics, educational analytics, business information).  For the purposes of this Policy, the terms 
being used at Strathclyde are defined below. 
Term Definition 
Aggregate reporting Dashboards or other reports which combine the responses for a specified 
group or groups of respondents into a whole entity e.g. a 
Department/School dashboard shows a summary of the results from all 
student responses in that Department/School. 
Automated decision / 
Automated decision-making 
Automated decision-making, as defined by the ICO (Information 
Commissioner’s Office), is the process of making a decision by automated 
means without any human involvement. These decisions can be based on 
factual data, as well as on digitally created profiles or inferred data. 
Examples of this include: 
• an online decision to award a loan; and 
• an aptitude test used for recruitment which uses pre-programmed 
algorithms and criteria 
Business Intelligence / 
Business Analytics 
Business Intelligence at The University of Strathclyde is governed and 
driven by Strategy & Planning and currently defined as a business-driven 
process, supported by software and hardware technologies, that brings 
data from corporate source systems together into the Enterprise Data 
Warehouse, subject to data quality controls, and makes regularly 
refreshed management information based on agreed data definitions 
(business glossary) available to decision makers and support staff via 
Dashboards, Reports and Analysis in SUnBIRD (Strathclyde University’s 
Business Intelligence Reports and Dashboards). 
Curriculum analytics  The analysis of curriculum to understand the objectives, structure, content 
and purpose of a course, its complexity, suitability, relevance, potential for 
student progress, pathways and personalisation.
 
Dashboard A vehicle for the dynamic presentation of data with interaction enabling 
user insights via exploration and visualization. 
Demographics Characteristics used to describe a population group or sub-group of 
individuals e.g. gender, age, ethnicity, domicile etc. 
Engagement Focussed 
Insights 
Engagement indicators that provide specific measures of students’ 
engagement with particular activities and resources. These primarily 
capture behavioural engagement but may also allow inferences about 
cognitive engagement.  
Contrary to the Engagement Pulse Check, Focussed Insights data points 
include assorted other, activity-specific indicators (e.g. assessment 
extension decisions, forum post word counts, etc.) alongside actions. 
Engagement Pulse Check Engagement indicators that provide a general, high-level summary of the 
scale and rhythm of behavioural engagement. This involves taking the

--- PAGE 9 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
Term Definition 
Learning Management System action as the basic data point, and pairing 
it with some contextual ones (date, time, student, class, action type, etc.).   
The Engagement Pulse-Check insights can assist staff in identifying 
where a particular student or group of students may need support or 
further follow-up based on their level of activity on a Learning 
Management System site. 
Learning analytics  There are multiple definitions of learning analytics across the HE sector.  
At Strathclyde, this is defined as the legal and ethical collection, 
measurement, analysis, reporting and use of data about learners and their 
contexts, for the purposes of understanding and enhancing learning and 
supporting students.  Data gathered includes information about student 
activity on the Learning Management System combined with the student 
record and student survey results. 
Learning Design Learning design is a process that encompasses the thoughtful planning of 
a learner’s journey, constructing that journey, delivering it in some form 
and, finally, reflecting and reviewing on the outcomes. 
(University of 
Edinburgh, 2019) 
Learning design can be defined as the methodology that enables teachers 
or designers to make more informed decisions in designing learning 
activities and interventions, which are pedagogically informed and make 
effective use of appropriate resources and technologies. A key principle of 
learning design is making the design process more explicit and shareable. 
(Lilliann Buus, 2018) 
Learning Management System A learning management system (LMS) is a software application for the 
administration, documentation, tracking, reporting, automation, and 
delivery of educational courses, training programs, materials or learning 
and development programs. (Wikipedia, 2023) 
The University currently uses Moodle (referred to at Strathclyde as 
Myplace) as its Learning Management System, also referred to as the 
Virtual Learning Environment (VLE). 
Measures of attainment Measures of attainment include, for example, grades, marks, or 
classifications. 
Module  The individual components of a programme, usually worth 10 or 20 
credits. 
Programme A programme of study leading to an award.  May also be referred to as 
“course”.   
Learning Insights 
 
Learning analytics service provided by Education Enhancement.  All 
insights are derived from student activity, student voice or staff activity for 
and on behalf of students.

--- PAGE 10 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
Term Definition 
Learning Insights Dashboard Dashboards that provide insight on the Strathclyde student learning  
experience via dynamic presentation of student engagement, student 
voice, and/or student attainment data. 
Student activity Refers to activity that students undertake within education systems such 
as the Learning Management System, e.g. downloading or viewing videos 
for a module. 
Student engagement  A complex concept, capturing students’ levels and types of activity on, and 
investment in, their learning experience. Engagement has multiple 
dimensions, including behavioural (actions), cognitive (thoughts) and 
emotional (feelings). 
It is important to note that not all of these dimensions are easily 
quantifiable or identifiable in dashboards. 
Student engagement data Data representing students’ levels, types, and patterns of engagement 
with their studies. This may cover behavioral, cognitive, or emotional 
engagement.   
It should be noted that not all facets of students’ engagement can be 
readily quantifiable/measurable or identifiable, therefore presentations of 
student data is unlikely to provide a holistic view of a student’s overall 
engagement. 
Student voice data / student 
feedback 
Data pertaining to institutional student survey responses, including student 
module evaluation. Student voice data reflects students’ opinions and 
experiences and is subjective in nature.  Student voice does not refer to 
any particular feedback system.  It can also be referred to as student 
feedback. 
Thematic dashboard A dashboard with a particular thematic focus (e.g. assessment and 
feedback), which draws together multiple, relevant data sources (e.g. 
Pulse Check, Focussed Insights and Student Voice data points) to help 
tell a story around that theme.

--- PAGE 11 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
Appendix: Ethics Framework  
Introduction 
From data protection to unbiased analysis, ethical questions arise at all stages of the learning analytics process. 
For this reason, a robust ethical framework is required as a foundation for a learning analytics service at 
Strathclyde. 
- This paper provides a summary of how ethics is understood to relate to and underpin learning analytics at 
Strathclyde. It is designed to serve as a touchstone for the development and use of our Student Insights 
dashboards, and for other learning analytics work across the institution.  
It has been informed by discussions with colleagues and a thorough review of the literature on ethics and 
learning analytics.  A list of references included at the end of this document. 
Learning analytics is an evolving field, as is scholarship on the ethical dimensions of data, analytics, and 
technology. Therefore this framework will be regularly reviewed.  
Outline of an ethical framework 
A general framework for considering the ethical dimensions of student insight analytics is outlined in Figure 1. It 
consists of three guiding principles, that express the fundamental role of ethics in analytical inquiry, and five 
overlapping themes/values, that encapsulate the various ethical considerations that emerge when doing 
student insight analytics. 
More specific ethical principles, rules, guidelines and policies have emerged under these five themes. These are 
developed with reference to this framework and input from consultation with colleagues and other interested 
parties. These are discussed in the procedures that accompany this document and the institution’s Learning 
Analytics Policy.  However, to make the principles discussed here more concrete, a of practical situations where 
they will be applicable is provided at the end of this document. 
 
Figure 1

--- PAGE 12 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
 
In summary, the three guiding principles are taken to mean the following: 
• Human-centred analytics: that the people who will use and be affected by the analytics system will be 
consulted throughout its development, including in identifying requirements, defining indicators and user 
testing. This consultation includes both University staff (e.g. as direct users of dashboards) and students 
(e.g. as individuals directly affected by learning analytics activities). This principle aligns with “people-
orientedness” being one of Strathclyde’s organisational values. 
• Ethics underpins everything: there are ethical dimensions to all aspects of the analytics process, 
including data collection, analytical procedures, dashboard design, and resource- creation. Ethics is not 
merely a matter of policy/governance. 
• Clarity of purpose: a definition of, and agreement on, the purposes of learning analytics underpins how 
the practice should be conducted and how any systems can and should be used. Ethical arguments will 
refer back to these purposes for justification. 
The purposes of learning analytics at Strathclyde were arrived at and refined through a process of reflection and 
wide consultation.  
At Strathclyde, learning analytics is defined as:  
The legal and ethical collection, measurement, analysis, reporting and use of data about learners and their 
contexts, for the purposes of understanding and enhancing learning and supporting students.  
Learning analytics has as its purposes understanding and enhancing learning environments and assisting staff to 
support students.   Review of the literature on the ethics of learning and educational analytics suggests a number 
of issues, challenges and questions that can be categorised under at least five themes. Figure 2 presents a 
summary of these. For more detail on each of the issues summarised by the bullet points, colleagues are invited 
to consult the references listed at the end of this document.  
The items listed under ‘Privacy’ are not intended to summarise obligations under data protection legislation, but 
reflect considerations from an ethical perspective (which may relate to but is not identical with a legal one).  
 
Figure 2 
Practical implications of these guiding principles and themes/values need to be considered at all stages of work 
on learning analytics, during and beyond this project. Areas where this ethical framework is relevant to practical 
work may include:  
• Development of policy/procedures – e.g. Equality Impact Assessment; Data Protection Impact 
Assessment. 
• Data collection, management and storage – e.g. what data is legitimate to collect; rules for appropriate 
anonymisation of data; communication around scope of data collection. 
Responsibility

--- PAGE 13 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
• Data analysis – e.g. avoidance of biased metrics and models. 
• Dashboard purpose and design – e.g. open dialogue around purposes and use-cases; publication 
thresholds and sensitive approach to what data is visualised and how. 
• Dashboard access and permissions – e.g. defined roles and responsibilities; restricted access to 
sensitive data. 
• Staff development and guidance for interpretation and use – e.g. shared understanding of purpose; 
familiarity with data protection rules; guidance on accurate interpretation of data.  
References 
Baker, R. S. and Hawn, A. (2022) ‘Algorithmic Bias in Education’, International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in 
Education, 32, pp. 1052-1092. 
  
Bals, N., Bryce, L., Rates, D., and Sell, J. (2019) Learning Analytics: Student Perception across Scottish Higher 
Education Institutions. Available at https://www.enhancementthemes.ac.uk/docs/ethemes/evidence- for-
enhancement/learning-analytics-student-perception-across-scottish-higher-education-
institutions.pdf?sfvrsn=9f2bc681_4 (accessed 14/12/21).  
  
Broughan, C. and Prinsloo, P. (2020) ‘(Re)centring students in learning analytics: In conversation with Paulo 
Freire’, Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education 45(4), pp. 617-628.  
  
Buckingham Shum, S., Ferguson, R., and Martinez-Maldonado, R. (2019) ‘Human-Centred Learning 
Analytics’, Journal of Learning Analytics 6(2), pp. 1-9.   
  
Corrin, L., Kennedy, G., French, S., Buckingham Shum, S., Kitto, K., Pardo, A., West, D., Mirriahi, N., and Colvin, 
C. (2019) The ethics of learning analytics in Australian higher education: A discussion paper . Available at 
https://melbourne-cshe.unimelb.edu.au/research/research-programs/technology-enhanced-learning-in-higher-
education/the-ethical-use-of-learning-analytics (accessed 13/12/21).  
  
Drachsler, H. and Greller, W. (2016) ‘Privacy and Analytics – it’s a DELICATE Issue: A Checklist for Trusted 
Learning Analytics’. LAK '16: Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Learning Analytics & 
Knowledge, pp. 89-98.  
  
Howell, J. A., Roberts, L. D., Seaman, K., Gibson, D. C. (2018) ‘Are We on Our Way to Becoming a ‘‘Helicopter 
University’’? Academics’ Views on Learning Analytics’, Technology, Knowledge and Learning 23, pp. 1-20.  
  
Jisc (2018) Code of practice for learning analytics. Available at https://www.jisc.ac.uk/guides/code-of-practice-for-
learning-analytics (accessed 13/12/2021).  
  
Karumbaiah, S. and Brooks, J. (2021) ‘How Colonial Continuities Underlie Algorithmic Injustices in Education’. 
2021 Conference on Research in Equitable and Sustained Participation in Engineering, Computing, and 
Technology (RESPECT), pp. 1-6.  
  
Microsoft (2021) Design Power BI reports for accessibility. Available at https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-
bi/create-reports/desktop-accessibility-creating-reports (accessed 13/12/21).   
  
Pardo, A. and Siemens, G. (2014) ‘Ethical and privacy principles for learning analytics’, British Journal of 
Educational Technology 45(3), pp. 438-450. 
 
  
Prinsloo, P. and Slade, S. (2014) ‘Student Data Privacy and Institutional Accountability in an Age of Surveillance’. 
In Menon, M. E., Terkla, D. G., and Gibbs, P. (eds.), Using Data to Improve Higher Education: Research Policy 
and Practice. Sense Publishers, pp. 197-214.  
  
Prinsloo, P. and Slade, S. (2016) ‘Student Vulnerability, Agency, and Learning Analytics: An Exploration’, Journal 
of Learning Analytics, 3(1), pp. 159-182.  
  
Prinsloo, P. and Slade, S. (2018) ‘Mapping responsible learning analytics: a critical proposal’. In: Khan, B. H., 
Corbeil, J. R., and Corbeil, M. E. (eds.), Responsible Analytics & Data Mining in Education: Global Perspectives

--- PAGE 14 ---

Learning Analytics Policy 
 
on Quality, Support, and Decision-Making. Routledge, pp. 63-79. Available via Open Research Online at 
http://oro.open.ac.uk/55827/ (accessed 10/12/2021).  
  
Slade, S., and Prinsloo, P. (2013) ‘Learning Analytics: Ethical Issues and Dilemmas’, American Behavioral 
Scientist 57(10), pp. 1510-1529.  
  
Steiner, C. M., Kickmeier-Rust, M. D., and Albert, D. (2016) ‘LEA in Private: A Privacy and Data Protection 
Framework for a Learning Analytics Toolbox’, Journal of Learning Analytics 3(1), pp. 66-90.  
  
Swenson, J. (2014) ‘Establishing an Ethical Literacy for Learning Analytics’. LAK '14: Proceedings of the Fourth 
International Conference on Learning Analytics & Knowledge, pp. 246-250.  
  
The Open University (2014) Policy on Ethical use of Student Data for Learning Analytics . Available at 
https://help.open.ac.uk/documents/policies/ethical-use-of-student-data/files/22/ethical-use-of-student-data-
policy.pdf (accessed 10/12/2021).  
  
University of Strathclyde (n.d.) Our values. Available at https://www.strath.ac.uk/whystrathclyde/values/ 
(accessed 10/12/2021).  
  
Wintrup, J. (2017) ‘Higher Education’s Panopticon? Learning Analytics, Ethics and Student Engagement’, Higher 
Education Policy 30, pp. 87-103.