--- PAGE 1 ---

Personal 
Circumstances & 
Academic Appeals 
Procedure 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author(s) Approval Effective Date 
1.1 Appeals Procedure J Meredith/ D 
Thompson 
Senate (Jun 2013) 01 Aug 2013 
1.2 Appeals Procedure Education 
Enhancement 
 01 Oct 2016 
1.3 Appeals Procedure Education 
Enhancement 
Senate (Jun 2017) 01 Aug 2017 
1.4 Appeals Procedure Education 
Enhancement 
Minor revision 01 June 2018 
1.5 Appeals Procedure Education 
Enhancement 
Minor revision 01 July 2020 
1.6 Appeals Procedure Education 
Enhancement 
Minor revision 28th November 
2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedures for the consideration of Personal Circumstances & 
Academic Appeals. 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263 
Version 1.6 1/06/2018 
PAPER S23-24-OOC2

--- PAGE 2 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
1 
 
 
 
University of Strathclyde 
Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
 
Contents 
1. INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................... 2 
Academic Judgment ................................................................................................ 3 
Advice & Support ..................................................................................................... 3 
False Declaration ..................................................................................................... 3 
Data Protection Act .................................................................................................. 4 
Graduation ............................................................................................................... 4 
2. PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES PROCEDURES ................................................. 4 
Timing of Notification of Personal Circumstances .................................................... 4 
Nature of Circumstances that Will be Considered .................................................... 6 
Supporting Evidence ............................................................................................... 7 
3. APPEALS ............................................................................................................. 8 
Who can appeal ...................................................................................................... 9 
Time Limits .............................................................................................................. 9 
Implications for progress or graduation .................................................................... 9 
4. STAGE 2: ACADEMIC APPEALS TO FACULTY .............................................. 10 
Timing and format of appeals to Faculty ................................................................ 10 
Grounds of appeal to Faculty ................................................................................. 11 
Procedure for Faculty Academic Appeals .............................................................. 12 
5. STAGE 3: SENATE ACADEMIC APPEAL ........................................................ 13 
Grounds of appeal to the Senate ........................................................................... 13 
Timing and format of appeals to the Senate .......................................................... 13 
Procedure for Senate Academic Appeals .............................................................. 14 
6. EXTERNAL REVIEW PROCESS - SPSO ........................................................... 16 
7. USEFUL CONTACTS ......................................................................................... 17 
8. APPENDIX A: EXAMPLES OF PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES ......................... 1 
What would normally be considered ........................................................................ 1 
Circumstances that will not be Considered ............................................................. 1

--- PAGE 3 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
2 
 
 
 
 
Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedures 
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1 The University’s procedures for the consideration of Personal Circumstances & Academic 
Appeals seek to ensure that all students are treated fairly, are not disadvantaged by 
circumstances beyond their control and that the standards of the University’s awards are 
maintained. These procedures apply to all new and continuing students from session 2017- 
18. 
1.1 a Students include: 
(i) All full-time and part-time students on courses delivered wholly by the University, whether on 
campus or elsewhere by distance learning; 
(ii) All full-time and part-time students on courses delivered jointly by the University for which the 
University is the administering institution (as detailed in the Memorandum of Agreement). 
 
1.1 b Personal Circumstances are defined as circumstances beyond a student’s control which may 
adversely affect their ability to study or their performance in assessment. 
 
1.2 An appeal is defined as a request for a review of a decision by an academic body charged with 
determining student progression and awards. This will be one of a General Board of Examiners, 
an Honours Board of Examiners, an Integrated Masters Board of Examiners, a Taught 
Postgraduate Board of Examiners, a Research Examining Committee, hereinafter referred to as 
‘Board of Examiners’. This Procedure explains how students may lodge an appeal against a 
progress or award decision of a Board of Examiners and how the appeal will be heard by the 
University. 
 
1.3 The University Senate has overall responsibility for overseeing the Personal Circumstances & 
Academic Appeals Procedure, with day -to-day responsibility given to the Vice- Principal. Others 
normally involved in the procedures are: 
 
(i) Vice-Dean (Academic) or nominee 
(ii) Head of Department or nominee 
(iii) Faculty Manager or nominee 
 
1.4 The Boards of Examiners are supported by Pre-Boards or Personal Circumstances Boards (PBs 
or PCBs)1, which consider student’s Personal Circumstances and their impact on performance in 
assessment and decide whether to recommend any academic dispensation. 
 
1.5 The Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure consists of three internal stages: 
 
(i) Personal Circumstances Procedure 
(ii) Stage 1: Appeal to the Faculty Appeals Committee 
(iii) Stage 2: Appeal to the Senate Appeals Committee 
 
1 For the purposes of this procedure, references to PCBs should be taken to include PBs

--- PAGE 4 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
3 
 
 
 
1.6 If, after all the internal stages have been exhausted, a student is still dissatisfied with the result 
they may apply to the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman for an external review of the handling 
of their appeal by the University. 
 
1.7 Failure to operate to the timescales defined in these procedures or administrative error do not, of 
themselves, constitute grounds upon which an appeal decision can be deemed to be invalid. 
 
AC  AD  E M I C J U D G M ENT  
 
1.8 Appeals against how academic judgment has been exercised will not be considered.  Academic 
judgment is a judgment about an assessment, a degree classification, research methodology or 
course content/learning outcomes.  In other words, a student cannot submit an appeal simply 
because they believe that they deserve a better mark and any such appeal will be rejected.  A 
student who does not understand why they received a lower mark than they had expected, should 
contact the relevant tutor and ask for feedback. 
 
1.9 An appeals committee will not re-mark work, change any mark awarded or pass comment on the 
marks given. However, it can consider whether the University has correctly followed its own 
assessment, marking and moderation procedures, and whether there was any unfairness, bias or 
procedural irregularity in the decision-making process. It can also take account of difficult Personal 
Circumstances, if there are good reasons why these were not previously made known to the Board 
of Examiners. 
 
A D VI  CE  & SUPP O RT  
 
1.10 For advice and support in submitting Personal Circumstances or lodging an Appeal, students are 
advised to discuss the issue with one or more of the following: 
• Personal Development Advisor 
• Course Director/Year Advisor 
• Disability Service (in the case of students with a disability) 
• The Advice Hub at the University of Strathclyde Students’ Association (USSA). 
 
1.11 All of the above are able to advise on the process/procedure and the Advice Hub can advise on 
the best way to formulate an appeal and/or the supporting evidence which might help the student’s 
case. Any such discussions will be confidential and so cannot prejudice the appeal. Students who 
wish advice on the process may also consult Education Enhancement or the relevant Faculty Office. 
 
EQ  U A L I T Y A N D DI  VERSI  TY  
 
1.12 Appeals should be dealt with in accordance with the University's Equality and Diversity Policy . 
Where a student has declared a disability the University will endeavour where appropriate to 
ensure that information is available to them in appropriate formats, with reasonable adjustments 
made to proceedings within the procedure as required.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
4 
 
 
F A L SE  DECL  A R A T I O N 
 
1.13 The submission of a false Personal Circumstances claim or appeal will be regarded as making a 
false declaration in order to receive special consideration by Board of Examiners or Appeals 
Committee or to obtain extensions to deadlines  or exemption from work.  This is an offence of 
academic dishonesty and may result in disciplinary action against the student. 
 
D A T A PRO  T EC  T I O N A CT  
 
1.14 By providing personal information under Personal Circumstances or for an appeal, students are 
consenting to the University collecting, processing and storing this information. The University 
handles personal data in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and 
recognises the importance of correct and lawful processing. Your personal information may be 
shared with members of staff who can assist with investigation of your appeal. You have the right 
to restrict the internal sharing of the personal information you submit with your academic appeal, 
although this could restrict the University’s ability to thoroughly investigate your appeal. You may 
indicate who you consent to us sharing your data with on the academic appeals form. Further 
details about the University’s processing of personal data can be found at: 
https://www.strath.ac.uk/professionalservices/dataprotection/ 
 
 
1.15 The University recognises many problems or events may be personal and private, and that 
students may be reluctant to disclose them to a member of University staff, however students are 
encouraged to do so for their own benefit. The University will deal with personal information 
sensitively and will ensure the information is not disclosed unnecessarily. 
 
GR  A D U A T ION  
 
1.16 It is important to note that a student who submits an appeal and then graduates before 
the appeal process is concluded will be taken to have withdrawn the appeal and it will 
not thereafter be considered (See para. 3.14). 
 
 
2. PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES PROCEDURES 
 
T IM  IN  G OF  N OT  I F IC  A T I O N O F P ERSO  N A L CI  RCUM  ST  A NCES  
 
2.1 Personal Circumstances may adversely affect a student’s ability to study or their performance in 
assessment. It is recognised that assessment periods can be stressful. However, students need 
to be able to plan and manage their time and workload to meet deadlines, to cope with a certain 
level of stress, and to manage their University studies alongside other responsibilities in life. It is 
also essential to recognise that illnesses and difficult life events do occur, and that it is a normal 
part of life to have to manage these and continue with work or study. 
 
2.2 Students whose attendance or performance has been, or will be, affected by c ircumstances that 
are acute, severe and outside their control should inform the University as soon as they are 
aware of these circumstances by recording them on Pegasus under ‘Personal Circumstances’ 
and submitting supporting evidence as soon as such evidence is available. When a student’s

--- PAGE 6 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
5 
 
 
performance in examination(s) or other assessment(s) is affected, the circumstances should be 
notified to Student Business, by completing and submitting Personal Circumstances,  normally 
within five working days of the latest affected examination/assessment or date of submission of 
affected assessment. Where an entire semester or examination diet is affected Personal 
Circumstances should be submitted as soon as possible and at least one working day before 
the relevant meeti ng of the Personal Circumstances Board (PCB). Notification of Personal 
Circumstances will not normally be accepted after the PCB has met.  Guidance can be found on 
the relevant university webpages. 
 
2.3 Students should report in advance any circumstances that they anticipate will affect their 
performance in assessment. Students who know that they will be unable to attend an examination, 
due to circumstances beyond their control, should submit Personal Circumstances, along with 
supporting evidence in good time. 
 
2.4 If a student does not submit Personal Circumstances they will not be considered by the Exam 
Board. It is the student’s responsibility to notify Student Business and to organize and provide the 
relevant supporting evidence. 
 
2.5 Students should clearly state the extent, duration and nature of their Personal Circumstances and 
how these circumstances affected their performance. 
 
2.6 PCBs will consider all Personal Circumstances recorded on Pegasus. These Boards typically 
consist of representatives drawn from each department/course from which student cases will be 
considered. These are often Year Co-ordinators/Advisors of Study. All Personal Circumstances 
that have been recorded on Pegasus or received by Student Business by  the deadlines stated 
above and meet the criteria stated below will be considered by the relevant PCB. Based on the 
information submitted the PCB will make recommendations to the appropriate Board of Examiners 
as to whether any academic dispensation should be granted. 
 
2.7 PCBs will not make decisions on marks or progress. These are made by the Board of Examiners. 
The Board of Examiners will take into account the recommendation of the PCB, normally by 
discounting all or part of an assessment, not by raising a mark. 
 
2.8 PCBs are held just before Board of Examiners meetings. Therefore, students should be aware 
that they will not receive notification of any outcome from the PCB.  They will receive notification 
only of the decision of the Board of Examiners. For students who submit Personal Circumstances 
during semester one, this notification will normally follow the Board of Examiners meetings in 
May/June when all marks are confirmed for semesters one and two. 
 
2.9 Internal examiners may take account of Personal Circumstances by discounting a 
component/components of an assessment which constitute no more than 30% in total of the full 
assessment. Any such adjustment will be recorded by the relevant Department/School in order to 
prevent Personal circumstances being ‘double-counted’. 
 
2.10 In considering the effect of Personal Circumstances on the student’s performance the following 
will be taken into account: 
• The severity of the problem and the length of time involved; 
• Any supporting documentary evidence; 
• The student’s performance during the period affected and the student’s overall and past 
performance. Whether it is possible to gauge the effect of the Personal Circumstances

--- PAGE 7 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
6 
 
 
upon academic performance; 
• The type of assessment that was affected; 
• How long the student had to complete the work (i.e. date when work set and deadline for 
submission). 
 
2.11 Students who fail to report Personal Circumstances prior to the Board of Examiners’ 
meeting, without good reason, may not subsequently appeal against that Board’s decision 
on the grounds of Personal Circumstances. 
 
2.12 Responsibilities of Students 
• Students are responsible for ensuring that they inform their Department of any circumstances 
that they consider are affecting their ability to study and/or undertake assessments. 
• Students should note that there are defined timeframes for the submission of Personal 
Circumstances. 
• Students are responsible for providing the required evidence demonstrating their personal 
circumstances. 
• Students should make every effort to ensure that they are fit to study and undertake assessment. 
Where a student feels that there are circumstances that are affecting them adversely it is their 
responsibility to seek help either within or outwith the University, as relevant, to assist in resolving 
the problem. 
• Students are responsible for ensuring that they are available for all necessary study and 
assessments. 
• Students are encouraged, if appropriate, to register with the Disability Service. Designated Exam 
Coordinators have responsibility for ensuring that recommended exam arrangements are put in 
place for students requiring disability adjustments. 
 
 
N A T URE  O F C I R CUM  ST  A N CES  T H A T W I L L BE  C O N S I DERED  
 
2.13 Personal Circumstances will be considered if they have caused significant interference with 
academic performance. In general, though not exclusively, circumstances will be of a medical or 
personal nature affecting the student for a significant period of time and/or during the assessment 
period. These are normally circumstances  that prevent the student from submitting a piece of 
course work, sitting an examination or cause the student to perform significantly less well than 
they might otherwise have been expected to do (as judged by performance in other work). 
 
2.14 In order to be considered, Personal Circumstances must have significantly affected a student’s 
academic performance, attendance (including examinations) or ability to meet a submission 
deadline. Boards and appeal committees will have regard to the following factors in cons idering 
circumstances: 
 
• the evidence presented to support the claim; 
• the possible effect of the circumstances on the studies in question; and 
• the student’s overall performance on their programme and specific performance in 
assessments affected by the circumstances. 
 
2.15 Students are reminded that Boards and appeal committees will not consider circumstances which 
could have been reasonably avoided by the student or where it is not clear that there has been a 
significant impact on academic performance. Minor  ailments and personal difficulties of the sort 
faced by many students in the normal course of University life will not be considered.

--- PAGE 8 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
7 
 
 
 
2.16 A list of examples of circumstances that would be considered or dismissed is provided in 
Appendix A which accompanies this procedure. 
 
2.17 Actions normally considered by a Board of Examiners include discounting an attempt at an 
examination or assessment or in a small number of cases adjusting the balance of assessment 
for a class. Personal Circumstances must have affected the student’s performance sufficiently to 
justify these actions and this gives an indication of the level of interference in academic 
performance which must be demonstrated when submitting Personal Circumstances and 
supporting evidence. 
 
2.18 Boards will normally disregard circumstances where there is no or insufficient evidence. 
 
2.19 Circumstances which affected the student during the semester but did not impact on the 
examination diet will normally not be considered by the Board.  Students whose coursework is 
affected should request an extension, where appropriate, from Academic staff. 
 
2.20 Long Term Conditions/Disabilities affecting the Ability to Study and/or Comply with Examination 
Requirements 
Students who are aware of a disability, long-term medical condition, mental health or other long- 
term circumstances that are expected to have an impact on their performance should make the 
University aware of those circumstances at the earliest possible opportunity and should seek 
relevant adj ustments through Student Disability Service and Departmental Disability Contacts 
(DDCs). 
 
 
SUPPO  R T I N G E VI  DENCE  
 
2.21 All notifications of Personal Circumstances should be accompanied by supporting evidence, 
wherever possible, in writing, from an appropriate authority. A claim for Personal Circumstances 
without appropriate supporting evidence is unlikely to be upheld. 
 
2.22 Individual circumstances will dictate the nature of the evidence required to support a claim. 
Normally, students should seek evidence from an independent person, organisation or support 
service. Documents should be originals (not photocopies) signed by an appropriate third party, 
giving details of the circumstance, its duration, and, where possible, its impact. 
 
2.23 If the original document submitted as evidence is not in English, an independent translation must 
also be provided e.g. from a professional translation service, member of University staff, embassy 
etc. This translation should not be undertaken by the student, a member of their family or a friend. 
 
2.24 It is recognised that there may occasionally be circumstances where a student is unable to obtain 
independent evidence.  This should be explained on Pegasus and the Board may choose to 
consider the Personal Circumstances at its discretion. The student should speak to the Advice Hub 
for further guidance before submission. 
 
2.25 Examples of evidence: 
• Letter or other document from a medical practitioner (doctor) (for students studying in 
Glasgow this should be a UK registered medical practitioner). 
• Death certificate – where possible an original should be produced but if not a copy will 
be accepted.

--- PAGE 9 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
8 
 
 
• Letter from solicitor, summons to attend court or attend for jury service; report or written 
evidence from a police officer (crime numbers on their own are not acceptable). 
• Confirmation by a transport official of unavoidable, unforeseen and severe disruption to 
transport. 
• A letter of confirmation of any matters of fact relevant to the claim from an academic 
member of staff, Hall Warden, Chaplain or other religious leader, the Student Counselling 
Service, the Advice Hub or other appropriate independent third party. 
 
2.26 The following will NOT normally be accepted as evidence: 
• Letters from family members, friends or other students; 
• Character references that confirm the good character of the student or how hard they 
worked but cannot confirm the facts of the claim; 
• Self-certificates for missed examinations or assignments; 
• Retrospective notes/letters where the Doctor etc. simply reports what the student has 
told him/her. Please note that evidence such as a doctor’s note must have been written 
at the time you were suffering from the illness –  retrospective documentary evidence or 
a doctor’s note which states that the GP has been informed that you were ill on a certain 
date is not acceptable. 
• Medical certificates originating overseas (for UK campus –based students) unless 
pertaining to an incident that happened overseas 
• Bank statements 
• Long-term ill-health, specific requirements, disabilities which have been disclosed and 
assessed by the University. Such conditions can only be considered as personal 
circumstances if there is demonstrable evidence the condition deteriorated during the 
specific period relating to the assessment period. 
 
2.27 Dates of evidence must correspond with the circumstances detailed.  If a student has missed an 
assignment through ill health, then the illness must coincide with the preparation, writing or 
deadline of that assessment.  Students who miss an examination or an invigilated test due to 
illness should seek medical attention as soon as possible.  Students who take ill during an 
examination should inform the invigilator before leaving the examination. 
 
2.28 Boards will normally require a medical certificate from a UK registered medical practitioner for 
absence from examinations, but if this cannot be provided for good reasons, then the Board will 
consider a letter of confirmation from an independent third party (not a relative or friend) or other 
evidence as appropriate. 
 
3. APPEALS 
 
3.1 The guiding principles for an appeal are: timeous decision making; openness and transparency of 
decision-making and proper recording of the reasons for the decision; the impartiality of the 
decision makers; the possibility of review, and the opportunity for both sides to have their views 
considered. 
 
3.2 The University recognises that some students may have specific needs and will seek to make 
reasonable adjustments to enable such students to engage with the appeals procedure.

--- PAGE 10 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
9 
 
 
3.3 A sub-committee of the Senate will monitor the outcome of appeals across the University to feed 
into the University’s quality assurance and enhancement processes. 
 
 
W HO  C A N A PPE A L 
 
3.4 All students have the right to appeal against a progress or award decision of a Board of Examiners. 
This includes students on joint programmes where Strathclyde is the administering institution and 
on part-time and distance learning programmes. 
 
3.5 Where a student is on a course at a partner institution before transferring onto a course at 
Strathclyde or a Strathclyde validated course delivered wholly by a partner institution, that 
institution’s appeals procedures should normally be followed. 
 
3.6 Where an appeal involves parties outwith the University (e.g. placement hosts) and where the 
student’s involvement with that party is the result of a compulsory element of the course, the 
appeal should be made to the University as described in this document. However, in such cases, 
it may be necessary also to comply with the appeals procedures of the third party concerned, 
which may, in particular, have implications for the timescale for dealing with the appeal. 
 
3.7 A student may not submit an appeal until formal notification of the results has been given through 
Pegasus (but should nevertheless notify the University of any Personal Circumstances that may 
have adversely affected their performance as detailed above). 
 
3.8 Normally students should initiate the appeal on their own behalf. Exceptionally, an appeal may be 
made on a student’s behalf by his or her nominee.  This must be accompanied by a signed 
statement from the student confirming that the nominee is acting on their behalf. 
 
3.9 Appeals submitted electronically must normally come via the student’s Strathclyde e- mail 
account. Unsigned Forms from unverifiable email accounts will be treated as coming from a third 
party and will not be accepted unless accompanied by a signed statement as detailed above. 
 
 
TI  M E L I M I TS  
 
3.10 Students should note that there are time limits on appeals.  Where a student does not submit an 
appeal within the appropriate deadline the appeal will not be considered unless the st udent can 
show compelling reasons for missing the deadline and these are explained in full and evidenced 
at the time of submission of the appeal. Appeals received twelve months or more after the date 
of the relevant Board of Examiners will not be considered in any circumstances. 
 
 
IM  P L IC  A T ION  S F OR  PR  O G RESS  O R G R A DU A T I ON  
 
Undergraduate and Taught Postgraduate Students 
3.11 Where an appeal to Faculty or the Senate is pending, the student will normally be allowed to 
continue to attend classes in order not to prejudice his or her studies if the Appeals Committee 
upholds the appeal. However, should the Appeals Committee not uphold the appeal, the student 
may be required to leave the classes.  Students who have been withdrawn will not normally be 
permitted to attend a placement while an appeal is pending.

--- PAGE 11 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
10 
 
 
 
3.12 A student whose appeal relates to progression to Masters may, at the discretion of the Head of 
Department (or HASS Course Leader), be permitted to begin their Masters project /dissertation 
provided that they would potentially have not more than 20 credits to resit (if permitted a further 
attempt at all outstanding assessments) and on the understanding that they will not be permitted 
to complete their project/dissertation should  the appeal be unsuccessful.  The Head of 
Department’s (or HASS Course Leader’s) decision on this is final.  Permission to begin the 
project/dissertation does not equate to progression to Masters and would not constitute 
grounds for further appeal. 
 
Research Students 
3.13 As there are timescales attached to research degrees, research students will have their 
registration suspended while an appeal is pending. If there are taught elements of their course 
that they have not completed, they may attend these classes subject to the agreement of the Head 
of Department (or HASS Course Leader) however, all research and related activity would normally 
be suspended until the appeal is resolved. 
 
Graduation 
3.14 If a student intends to appeal against an award decision, they must institute the appeal 
proceedings before they graduate.  Where an appeal relating to the final award is pending, 
either at Faculty or Senate level, the student must not graduate until the appeal is resolved and 
the student must notify Student Business of thi s appeal.  Graduation is considered to be 
acceptance of the award and an appeal against the classification or nature of the award 
cannot be raised after a student has graduated.  A student who submits an appeal and then 
graduates before the appeal is dealt w ith will be taken to have abandoned the appeal and it will 
not thereafter be considered. 
 
4. STAGE 1: ACADEMIC APPEALS TO FACULTY 
T IM  IN  G A N D F OR  M A T OF  A PPE A L S T O F A CUL  T Y 
 
4.1 The letter, posted on PEGASUS, informing the student of the decision of the Board of Examiners 
will specify a deadline for submission of an appeal.  All appeals, together with supporting 
documentary evidence, should be lodged with the appropriate Faculty Office no later than this 
deadline. For students in HaSS appeals should be lodged with the Academic Quality Support 
Team. 
 
Appeals submitted electronically should be sent to: 
Business School: sbs-appealscomplaints@strath.ac.uk 
Faculty of Engineering: eng-appealscomplaints@strath.ac.uk 
Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences: hass-aq@strath.ac.uk 
Faculty of Science: science-appealscomplaints@strath.ac.uk 
 
Appeals should be set out on the Faculty Appeals Form available electronically at 
http://www.strath.ac.uk/staff/policies/. All relevant sections of the Faculty Appeals Form  must be 
completed and all supporting documentation attached. In some circumstances, the University may 
have to verify evidence provided.  The statement on the last page of the Form, giving

--- PAGE 12 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
11 
 
 
permission for the University to contact the person or organisation that has provided the evidence 
to verify its authenticity, should be signed and returned either with the Appeal Form or, if the 
signature cannot be scanned and the Form is submitted electronically, as email attachment. 
Please note that we cannot accept hard copies. All submissions should be sent electronically to 
the relevant email address above. 
 
4.2 Where an appeal is based on circumstances which the student might reasonably have been 
expected to have brought to the attention of the Department or the Faculty before the meeting of 
the Board of Examiners or to have reported as Personal Circumstances, such as an on- going 
medical or personal circumstance, the student must provide an explanation of why these were not 
brought to the notice of the University at an earlier date. 
 
4.3 An appeal submitted by the deadline will normally be considered within 30 working days from the 
published deadline. Any unavoidable delays in addressing the appeal (e.g. the absence of the 
individual(s) required to provide a response) will be notified at as early a date as possible.  An 
appeal submitted after the appropriate deadline will not be considered unless there are compelling 
reasons for missing the deadline and these are explained in full and accompanied by relevant 
evidence at the time of submission.  Appeals received twelve months or more after the date 
of the relevant Board of Examiners will not be considered in any circumstances. 
 
 
G R O UNDS  O F A PPE A L T O F AC  U L T Y 
 
4.4 Appeals against a decision of a Board of Examiners must be made on at least one of the following 
grounds: (Please note: evidence should be provided for all grounds cited.) 
 
• procedural irregularities in the assessment process (including alleged administrative error 
which could have led the Board of Examiners to reach a different conclusion to that which 
they might have reached had the error not been made); 
• inadequate assessment, prejudice or bias on the part of the examiners; and /or 
• medical, personal or other circumstances which affected a student’s performance of which 
the examiners were unaware at the time of the assessment and which the student was 
unable to disclose under the Personal Circumstances procedures. 
 
4.5 If a claim on grounds of medical, personal or other circumstances forms the basis of an academic 
appeal, the student will need to demonstrate why they were unable to follow the procedures for 
submitting a claim for Personal Circumstances in advance of the Board of Examiners. 
 
4.6 Before an appeal is made on the grounds of procedural irregularity, including that relating to the 
consideration of Personal Circumstances, students may contact the Faculty Office for 
explanation/feedback on the procedure/handling of circumstances. Students should bear in mind 
where Personal Circumstances will not be considered as detailed above. 
 
4.7 Appeals concerning the alleged inadequacy of tuition, supervisory or other arrangements during 
the period of study will normally be dealt with, initially, as a complaint and the appeal suspended 
pending the outcome of the complaint investigation. Such issues should be raised, where 
possible, in advance of the final assessment, under the complaints procedures.

--- PAGE 13 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
12 
 
 
 
PRO  CEDURE  F O R F A CUL  T Y A C A DEM  I C A PPE A L S 
 
4.8 The Faculty Office will send out an acknowledgement within five working days of receipt of an 
appeal during the semester and ten working days outwith semesters, normally by email to the 
student’s Strathclyde email account. The student will be notified of any unavoidable delays in 
addressing the appeal (e.g. the absence of the individual(s) required to provide a response) at as 
early a date as possible. 
 
4.9 On receipt of the documentation, the Faculty Manager, or nominee, in consultation w ith the Vice 
Dean (Academic) or nominee, will judge whether there are grounds for appeal. If not, the student 
will be informed in writing that the appeal will not be considered because there are no grounds. 
 
4.10 If there are grounds for appeal, the Faculty Office will send a copy of the appeal documentation to 
the relevant Head of Department/School (or nominee) to comment on the appeal.  These 
individuals may consult colleagues, including any staff named in the appeal, or otherwise 
investigate the appeal as appropriate. 
 
4.11 Where an appeal alleges inadequate assessment, bias or prejudice on the part of the Head of 
Department/HaSS Course Leader acting as an examiner, the Vice-Dean (Academic) may consult 
colleagues or investigate the appeal as appropriate.  In particular, they will wish to consult any 
colleague named in the appeal. 
 
4.12 If the Department/School does not oppose the appeal at this stage, the Vice Dean or nominee 
may take the decision to uphold the appeal on behalf of the Faculty Appeals Committee and the 
student will be notified by the Faculty Office.  The Vice Dean or nominee may, however, (for 
example because the appeal raises a matter of general importance or to achieve consistency 
within the Faculty) refer the matter to the Faculty Appeals Committee, together with the information 
that the Department/School is not opposing the appeal. 
 
4.13 Where the Department/School wishes to oppose the appeal, the written appeal, together with the 
written comments of the Head of Department/School and the Vice- Dean (Academic), where 
appropriate, will be considered at the meeting of the Faculty Appeals Committee. 
 
4.14 Neither the Student nor the Department/School/Course Team has a right to appear before the 
Faculty Appeals Committee. The case at Faculty level is judged on the basis of the written appeal 
received from the student, the written Departmental/Course Team response to the student’s case, 
plus supporting evidence and other background information relevant to the student’s academic 
performance. 
 
4.15 Appeals Committees at Faculty level will be set up taking care to ensure impartiality in membership 
with regard to the individual appeals under consideration. Any member of staff who has previously 
been involved in a particular case cannot be involved in the decision- making process regarding 
the outcome of an appeal and should leave the room while that case is being considered. 
 
4.16 The Faculty Appeals Committee should take care to consider and respond to all the grounds for 
appeal presented by the student and, if appropriate, explain why certain grounds were not 
considered on the basis of relevance. 
 
4.17 A Faculty Appeals Committee does not have the authority to alter marks or Honours classification.

--- PAGE 14 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
13 
 
 
 
4.18 It may, on occasion, request that a Board of Examiners reconsider a  case in light of new 
information or that a piece of work be re- assessed. However, it is more usual that an attempt at 
an assessment would be discounted or a student offered the opportunity to repeat one or more 
classes, with no penalty, as it is impossibl e to quantify the effect a specific set of circumstances 
may have had on an individual’s performance. 
 
4.19 The student will be informed in writing of the decision of the Faculty Appeals Committee by the 
Faculty Office within seven working days of the decision being made. The Student will be provided 
with an explanation of the Faculty Appeals Committee’s decision(s) and with a copy of the written 
comments of the Department/School and/or the Vice-Dean (Academic) which were considered at 
the meeting of the Faculty Appeals Committee, for information. 
 
4.20 The Faculty Office will retain a record of appeals, including one copy of all relevant paperwork and 
minutes of the Faculty Appeal Committee meetings, for six years after the outcome of the appeal. 
All other copies of the Faculty Appeal papers will be destroyed once the appeal process has run 
its course. 
 
4.21 When an appeal points to procedural irregularities in the assessment process, appropriate 
recommendations to address these will be made to the Head of Department/School or the Director 
of the appropriate service area. 
 
 
5. STAGE 2: SENATE ACADEMIC APPEAL 
G R O UNDS  O F A PPE A L T O T HE  SEN A T E 
 
5.1 A student has the right of appeal to the Senate following an unsuccessful or only partially 
successful appeal to the relevant Faculty Appeals Committee on one or more of the following 
grounds: (Please note: evidence should be provided for all grounds cited.) 
 
i. substantial new information which was not available, for good reason, at the Faculty 
Appeal stage; 
ii. bias or prejudice on the part of those who dealt with the appeal at the Faculty Appeal 
stage; 
iii. breach of the Student Appeals procedure; 
 
5.2 An appeal to Senate against a decision of a Faculty Appeals Committee can only be made on the 
grounds above.  Senate will not re- consider an appeal that has been dismissed by the 
Faculty unless there are grounds to do so. 
 
5.3 If a claim on grounds of substantial new information forms the basis of an appeal, the student will 
need to demonstrate why they were unable to submit the information as part of their Faculty 
appeal.

--- PAGE 15 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
14 
 
 
T I M I N G A ND  F O RM  A T O F A PPE A L S T O T HE  S E N AT  E 
 
5.4 An appeal to the Senate may be lodged only after notification has been given of an unsuccessful 
appeal to the relevant Faculty Appeals Committee. 
 
5.5 All appeals to the Senate, together with any supporting documentary evidence, must normally be 
lodged with the Student Experience and Enhancement Services Directorate within a period of 
three weeks from the date on the letter informing the student of the outcome of the appeal to the 
relevant Faculty. Appeals received after this period will be accepted only where a valid reason is 
given for submission after the deadline. 
 
5.6 Appeals to the Senate should be set out on the Student Appeals Form, available electronically at 
http://www.strath.ac.uk/staff/policies/academic/ and should be emailed to senate-  
appeals@strath.ac.uk. Appeals submitted electronically must come via the student’s Strathclyde 
e-mail account. Please note that we cannot accept hard copies. All submissions should be sent 
by email to the email address listed here. 
 
5.7 All relevant sections of the Appeals Form must be completed and all available and appropr iate 
supporting documentation (e.g. medical certificates) attached.  As well as explaining in full the 
grounds on which the appeal is being made, the student should also state the outcome(s) sought 
(e.g. a further attempt at failed examinations).  In some circumstances, the University may have 
to verify evidence provided. The statement on the last page of the Form, giving permission for the 
University to contact the person or organisation that has provided the evidence to verify its 
authenticity, should be signed electronically. 
 
5.8 Education Enhancement will obtain copies of all documentation relating to the Faculty Appeal from 
the relevant Faculty Office including the Student Appeal Form which was considered by the 
Faculty Appeals Committee, the response received from the Faculty Appeals Committee, all 
evidence submitted and the written comments of the Head of Department/School and/or the Vice- 
Dean (Academic) which were submitted to the Faculty Appeals Committee. 
 
5.9 An acknowledgement of receipt by Education Enhancement will be sent out within five working 
days during the semester and ten working days outwith semesters, usually by email to the 
student’s Strathclyde email account.  An appeal submitted by the deadline will normally be 
considered within 30 worki ng days of its receipt.  Any unavoidable delay by the University in 
addressing the appeal (e.g. due to the absence of the individual(s) required to provide a response) 
will be notified at as early a date as possible. 
 
 
PRO  CEDURE  F O R SEN A T E A C A DEM  I C A PPE AL  S 
 
5.10 On receipt of the documentation, the Vice-Principal of the University (or nominee), in consultation 
with Education Enhancement, will judge whether there are grounds for appeal (as specified at 
para 5.1 above). If not, the student will be informed, in writing that the appeal will not be heard 
because there are no grounds, and will be advised of the independent External Review Process 
(see below). 
 
5.11 If a relevant ground of appeal has, in the opinion of the Vice- Principal (or nominee), been 
appropriately set out, a copy of the appeal documentation will be sent to the Faculty who will be 
asked to provide comments and any additional documents or other evidence that may be relevant.

--- PAGE 16 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
15 
 
 
5.12 If, as a result of additional information contained in the appeal to the Senate, the Faculty does not 
wish to oppose the appeal, the Vice- Principal (or nominee) may take the decision to uphold the 
appeal on behalf of the Senate Appeals Committee and the student will be notified by Education 
Enhancement. The Vice Principal (or nominee) may, however, still refer the matter to the Senate 
Appeals Committee if he considers this appropriate. 
 
5.13 Where the Faculty wishes to oppose the appeal, then the Senate Appeals Committee will normally 
be convened within thirty working days of the receipt of the appeal by the Education Enhancement. 
A Hearing of the Senate Appeal will only take place where the Vice Principal (or nominee) is 
satisfied that a relevant ground of appeal has been appropriately set out and where resolution 
cannot be obtained with the Faculty. 
 
5.14 The Senate Appeals Committee is convened by the Vice-Principal, Associate Deputy Principal or 
other senior academic officer and consists of the convener and two other members selected from 
academic members of Senate. Any staff member who has previously been involved in a particular 
case (in whatever capacity) is prohibited from serving as a member of the Senate Appeals 
Committee convened to hear the particular case. Members cannot hear appeals from students in 
their own Faculty. 
 
5.15 At least ten working days before the hearing is due the student will be notified in writing of the 
date, time, venue and other arrangements for the hearing, the constitution of the Committee and 
the details of anyone invited to attend the hearing. The student will also be provided with a copy 
of all papers that it is intended should be presented to the Senate Appeals Committee, including 
written comments from the Faculty. 
 
5.16 The student has the right (but is not required) to submit supplementary written material in response 
to these papers and, if they wish to introduce new grounds, must do so in writing.  Any such 
material must be submitted to Education Enhancement not less than five working days before the 
hearing, to allow members of the Senate Appeals Committee to include it in their preparation for 
the hearing. 
 
5.17 The student has the right to attend the hearing of the appeal, and the right to be accompanied or 
represented at the hearing by a person of their choice.  If the student is unable to attend, or 
chooses not to attend, their representative may do so on their behalf. The student must notify the 
Education Enhancement of the name of any individual who will be accompanying him or her to the 
meeting or representing him or her at the meeting. Where a student is unable to attend a hearing 
on the original date, the University will attempt to reschedule the hearing to enable the student 
and/or their representative to attend although this may result in the hearing taking place outwith 
the 30 working day period. If the student cannot attend on the alternative date or gives notice of 
less than 1 working day of their inability to attend, the hearing will go ahead in their absence. 
 
5.18 The convener of the Senate Academic Appeals Committee will ensure that the student is given 
adequate opportunity to explain the ground(s) of appeal, challenge or question the evidence 
presented in the papers and is afforded every reasonable opportunity to present their appeal and 
respond to any issue raised either in the papers or at the hearing of the appeal. 
 
5.19 A senior member of the Department/School/Faculty concerned, and/or other relevant person(s) 
(hereafter referred to as the Departmental representative), will normally be invited to attend the 
Senate Appeals Committee  hearing to provide information on matters such as practices, 
precedents, and academic requirements relating to the student’s course of study. None of these

--- PAGE 17 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
16 
 
 
individuals should have been involved in the decision- making process regarding the ou tcome of 
the Faculty appeal, nor should they have been implicated in the appeal itself, nor so far as is 
practicable should they have been involved in the original decision. 
 
5.20 The student, any accompanying person or representative and the Departmental representative 
will be admitted and remain present throughout the whole of the time that the Senate Appeals 
Committee is receiving evidence. 
 
5.21 Procedure at the appeal will be determined by the convener but the normal sequence during the 
hearing is as follows: 
 
• The Senate Appeals Committee meets in private to clarify which issues arising out of the 
appeal papers members wish to raise with the parties before inviting the student and 
accompanying person or representative and the Departmental representative to join the 
meeting; 
• The student – or representative - is invited to speak to the relevant aspects of the appeal; 
• The members of the Committee put questions to the student (or their representative) and, 
if necessary, the Departmental representative; 
• The Departmental representative is invited to make such comments as are considered 
necessary or appropriate; 
• The student (and/or representative) is invited to sum up the appeal; 
• The student, and accompanying person or representative and the Departmental 
representative are asked to leave the hearing and will not normally be required to return. 
• The Committee meets in private to reach a decision. 
 
Normally the student will receive formal written notification of the Committee’s findings and 
recommendations within ten working days of the date of the appeal being heard. The student will 
be provided with an explanation of the Committee’s decision, and, if their appeal was not upheld, 
will be advised of the External Review Process (see below). 
 
5.22 When an appeal indicates that there are procedural issues which need to be addressed, 
appropriate recommendations will be made to the Dean of the appropriate Faculty or the Director 
of the appropriate service area. 
 
5.23 Education Enhancement will  retain a record of appeals, including one copy of all relevant 
paperwork and minutes of the Senate Appeals Committee meeting for six years after the case is 
closed. Anonymised minutes of all hearings will be forwarded to the University’s Senate. 
 
 
6. EXTERNAL REVIEW PROCESS - SCOTTISH PUBLIC SERVICE 
OMBUDSMAN 
6.1 If a student remains dissatisfied with the outcome of an appeal to the Senate they have the right 
to apply to a public agency, the Scottish Public Service Ombudsman (SPSO) for an independent 
review of the handling of their appeal by the University. The SPSO will consider the way in which 
the University handled the appeal in the context of its internal procedures.  The SPSO will not 
address issues of academic judgment. 
 
6.2 The SPSO is the final stage for complaints about most organisations that provide public services

--- PAGE 18 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
17 
 
 
in Scotland, including Universities. Their service is independent, free and confidential. The SPSO 
can be contacted directly at 4 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH2 7NS or Freepost SPSO, Tel: 0800 
377 7330. 
 
6.3 The SPSO cannot normally look at complaints more than 12 months after the student first became 
aware of the issue concerned or that have been or are being considered in court. 
 
6.4 Further information is available at: http://www.spso.org.uk/ 
 
 
7. USEFUL CONTACTS 
 
The Advice Hub 
7.1 The Advice Hub is located on Level 1 of the Learning and Teaching Building, 51 Richmond Street, 
Glasgow, G1 1XU.  
 
7.2 The Advice Hub can be contacted by email strathunion.advice@strath.ac.uk, or online at  
https://www.strathunion.com/support/. Appointments can be made via the website. Appointments 
are available on Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays 9-5pm  and will be arranged in 
line with your availability. 
 
7.3 The Advice Hub staff can provide information and advice on a number of matters and can advise 
on the Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure but cannot assist students in 
writing appeals. 
 
The Disability and Wellbeing Service 
7.4 The Disability and Wellbeing Service can provide information, advice and assistance to disabled 
students, disabled applicants, and University staff working with and for disabled students and 
applicants. 
 
Disability and Wellbeing Service 
Learning and Teaching Building 
49 Richmond Street G1 1XU  
disability-wellbeing@strath.ac.uk

--- PAGE 19 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
1 
 
 
 
 
8. APPENDIX A: EXAMPLES OF PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES 
 
W H A T W O U L D NO  RM  A L L Y BE  CO  NS  I DERED  
 
The following are examples of circumstances that would normally be considered by PCBs. 
Students should note that this is not a complete list. Students may experience a range of Personal 
Circumstances which are not listed below but which have a significant effect on academic 
performance. When submitting Personal Circumstances, students should explain not only the 
nature of their circumstances but the way in which their academic performance has been affected. 
 
• Serious illness, physical or mental, or accident which can be verified, including sudden and 
unexpected deterioration of a long term condition; 
• Hospitalisation during or immediately before the assessment period or for a significant period 
during the semester; 
• Bereavement – loss of a *close relative/significant other; 
• Funeral of a relative or close friend occurring on the day of an examination; 
• Serious illness of a *close relative/significant other, 
• Unexpectedly becoming the sole or main carer for a relative/significant other**; 
• Family break up; 
• Being a victim or witness of a significant crime; 
• Exceptional and unforeseen travel circumstances beyond the student’s control which 
prevented them from attending an examination or other scheduled assessment; 
• Severe and unforeseen financial problems (e.g. failure of a bank; withdrawal of funding for a 
reason outwith the student’s control); 
• Impact of Forced Marriage; and 
• Jury Service - which should be notified to the University as soon as possible 
 
*Close relative is normally defined as a child, partner, parent or sibling or a relative responsible for 
raising the student but Boards may use their discretion depending on the circumstances of the 
student concerned 
** In such cases, students should inform the University of their caring status. Consideration will be 
taken where it has been recognised that the student’s performance has been affected. 
 
 
CI  RCUM  ST  A NCE S T H A T W I L L N O T BE  C O NS  I DE  RE  D 
 
Students should note that PCBs will not consider circumstances which students are expected to 
cope with as part of a properly managed workload or would not normally have a significant impact 
on academic performance. Boards will also normally disregard circumstances which the student 
could reasonably have avoided, where the student could have taken measures to reduce their 
impact or are no different from the circumstances facing a significant number of other students. The 
following are examples of circumstances which would not normally be considered: 
 
• Minor illness or ailment such as sore throats, minor colds, headaches, etc. 
• A short-term problem or illness which occurred during the year and is deemed not to have had 
an overall effect on the student’s performance;

--- PAGE 20 ---

Personal Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure 
2 
 
 
• Long term illness or disability, where reasonable adjustments have already been made for 
assessments or could have been made if the University had been made aware of the problem 
at the proper time; 
• Circumstances which have already been fully catered for by the granting of an extension for 
submitting coursework or assignments; 
• General pressure of work; 
• The timetabling of examinations, for example 'Bunching' of examinations or coursework 
deadlines; 
• Being unaware of the dates or times of submission deadlines or examination(s); 
• Missing an examination due to misreading the timetable or oversleeping; 
• An inability to prioritise and schedule the completion of several pieces of work over a period 
of time; 
• Inadequate planning to cope with last-minute delays and missing deadlines because of 
computer difficulties, or transport difficulties; 
• Losing work not backed up, failure of a single data source; 
• Failure to make alternative travel plans when disruptions were advised in advance; 
• Normal employment commitments, changing job or taking on overtime work; 
• Failure of cultural acclimatisation; 
• Representing the University or country at a sporting event where the Department/Faculty has 
not been notified in advance; 
• Holidays or wishing to attend important family events such as weddings. Funerals are an 
exception to this; 
• Financial issues other than those mentioned above; and 
• Not being aware of the Personal Circumstances Procedure.