--- PAGE 1 ---

POLICY ON FACULTY 
ANNUAL REPORTS
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.1 A Policy confirming 
the Faculty Annual 
Reporting process 
and the timelines 
for submission.  
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate November 
2022 
AY 2022/23 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number 
SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

1 
INTRODUCTION 
1. The Faculty Annual Reports (FARs) are a key mechanism for recording local
initiatives and disseminating good practice across and between Faculties, Education
E
nhancement and Student Experience Directorates and more widely throughout the
i
nstitution. The reports are based on a combination of review and forward planning.
In addition, they and the related processes which underpin them, provide a synthesis
of good practice and lessons learned through reflection on learning and teaching at
programme, subject, department / school and Faculty level.
2. T
he continuous monitoring and review of the University’s provision are core activities
that underpin the University’s quality assurance and enhancement processes. The
F
ARs are developed through a process that specifically identifies and captures
innovation and best practice which are then shared across the institution.
3. The FARs are reflective in nature and are prepared annually as a review of the
previous 18 months of activity. Further information regarding timescales can be found
i
n para 22 of this document.
4. T
his Policy should be read in conjunction with the Internal Review Framework.
5. P
lease contact the Quality Enhancement and Assurance Team (QEAT) for further
information educationenhancement-quality@strath.ac.uk or refer to the QEAT
SharePoint site.
PURPOSE OF THE FACULTY ANNUAL REPORT 
6. The FARs provide information for the University’s Quality Assurance Committee
(QAC) and Learning Enhancement Committee (LEC) on activities to enhance learning 
and teaching and confirmation that appropriate quality assurance mechanisms are in 
place in each of the four Faculties. The reports focus on how each Faculty’s 
enhancement activities contribute to the delivery of overall strategic priorities. The 
reports also form a valuable source of good practice and are an important part of the 
University’s annual monitoring processes, for reflection and peer review. The 
reflection and action detailed within the reports provide a critical link between 
institutional and Faculty/ department/ school oversight.
7. Annual programme monitoring is undertaken as part of the FAR process. Programme 
leaders/ review teams review their programmes each year, taking into account a wide 
range of elements including module evaluation, student/external/stakeholder 
feedback and regulations. Any changes required to these elements as a result of the 
review are processed via the Faculty Academic Committees as appropriate. Further 
information on Annual Programme Monitoring can be found in the Internal Review 
Framework.
8. It is the responsibility of each Faculty and their department/ school to take forward the 
recommendations arising from their report in conjunction with the relevant 
Professional Services areas, if appropriate.

--- PAGE 3 ---

2 
 
FAR TEMPLATE 
9. The FAR template is designed to encourage Faculties to capture a focused and 
concise evaluation (or a reflective summary) of their learning enhancement and 
quality assurance activities. It is intended to elicit both best practice to highlight and 
share, and identify challenges that need attention. 
 
10. It is the responsibility of the QEAT to produce the template for the Faculties. The 
template is reviewed on an annual basis, following feedback from the Faculties, and 
approved by the Chairs of Quality Assurance Committee and Learning Enhancement 
Committee.  
 
11. Faculties must avoid going over the length suggested by the template. It is important 
that the FARs are no more than 10 pages in length with a minimum number of 
relevant appendices, including the Learner Experience Framework. The FARs should 
signpost to existing information where possible.   
 
12. The Faculties lead on annual discussions with each of their respective academic 
departments/ schools, using this template. The Faculty teams produce the draft FAR 
using the template which is then submitted for peer review.   
 
PEER REVIEW 
13. Peer review is an integral component of the Faculty annual reporting process and 
takes place in advance of the final reports being submitted to QAC and LEC.  
 
14. This process allows the Faculties and Education Enhancement to jointly reflect on 
the structure and style of the report, helping strengthen the focus on enhancement 
and to introduce greater consistency in the type and depth of reporting across shared 
issues. 
 
15. Each report is peer reviewed by a Vice Dean Academic and Assistant Faculty 
Manager from another Faculty, together with a member of the QEAT. The peer 
reviewers have the opportunity to meet with the Vice Dean Academic and Assistant 
Faculty Manager from the Faculty whose report is being reviewed. These meetings 
are centrally coordinated by the QEAT and are designed to be collaborative and 
supportive in nature, leading to open and honest reflections on what has worked well 
and any challenges encountered. 
 
16. Following the peer review meeting, Faculties can refine their reports if required 
before submitting the final version to both QAC and LEC.  
LEARNER EXPERIENCE FRAMEWORK 
17. The Learner Experience Framework (LEF) aims to articulate what makes an 
outstanding student experience at Strathclyde. 
18. The LEF is incorporated into the Faculty annual reporting process. Faculty teams 
are expected to complete this in partnership with the departments/ schools and 
append to the FAR. Further information on the LEF can be found here.  
 
19. Information provided in the LEF is shared with the Careers and Employability 
Working Group (CEWG) which reports to Education Strategy Committee (ESC).

--- PAGE 4 ---

3 
SHARING BEST PRACTICE 
20. Faculties should share local initiatives and good practice surfaced in the FARs at the
peer
 review meeting. Departments and schools are also encouraged to share and
reflect on best practice more generally through a variety of internal mechanisms such
as
 the Learning and Teaching Improvement Framework Forums.
THEMATIC REPORT 
21. A short comprehensive report encapsulating the key themes across all four FARs is
produced following the peer review meeting. This is shared with QAC and LEC
members and published on the QEAT SharePoint site. The key themes are illustrated
with examples of good practice, innovations and challenges from each of the
Fac
ulties as appropriate. Faculties are encouraged to share the Thematic Report
more widely to allow colleagues to review practice in other departments/ schools.
TIMELINES 
22. The table below outlines an indicative timeline for the preparation and completion
o
f the Faculty Annual Reports.
Timeline for FARS FAR Activity 
Mid-September FAR template for reflections issued to VDAs and 
AFMs (or alternate) 
October-December Faculties to undertake discussions with departments/ 
schools  
By end of last week in 
January 
FARs to be finalised and submitted to Quality 
Enhancement and Assurance Team  
QEAT to send finalised FARs to VDAs (or alternate) 
By end of first week in 
February 
QEAT to host peer review event with VDAs and AFMs 
(or alternate) 
By end of third week in 
February  
QEAT to produce thematic report following peer review 
event 
By end of February QEAT to circulate thematic report to VDAs and AFMs 
(or alternate) for review 
By end of first week in March Comments to be fed back and thematic report to be 
finalised and circulated.  
Mid-March Joint QAC-LEC held. 
April-May QAC and LEC approve thematic report. QEAT to publish 
FARs and Thematic Report on QEAT SharePoint site. 
GOVERNANCE 
23. In advance of being submitted to QAC and LEC for final approval, the FARs must be
submitted to and approved by the relevant Faculty Academic Committee. Once
appr
oved by QAC and LEC it is expected that the Faculty team shares the FAR more
wid
ely within their Faculty.
24. It is the responsibility of each Faculty to take forward and keep track of any actions
arising from the reports and update QAC and LEC on their progress on at least an
annual
 basis.