--- PAGE 1 ---

POLICY FOR STUDENT 
MOBILITY 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A policy confirming 
arrangements for  
students undertaking 
international mobility. 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate  
 
From AY 2023-
24 
       
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS ....................................................................................................... 3 
INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................. 4 
SCOPE .................................................................................................................................  4 
DEFINITIONS ....................................................................................................................... 5 
PRINCIPLES OF STUDENT MOBILITY................................................................................ 5 
BEFORE THE MOBILITY ..................................................................................................... 6 
DURING THE MOBILITY ...................................................................................................... 8 
AFTER THE MOBILITY ........................................................................................................ 8 
AD HOC MOBILITY .............................................................................................................. 9 
HEALTH AND SAFETY ........................................................................................................ 9 
RISK ASSESSMENT .......................................................................................................... 10 
INSURANCE ....................................................................................................................... 11 
COMPLAINTS, WHISTLEBLOWING, AND SAFEGUARDING ............................................ 11

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
 
Bilateral Exchange A reciprocal arrangement in which fees are neutralised, facilitating 
student mobility between higher education institutions. 
 
Collaborative Provision  Education provision that leads to the award of academic credit 
and is delivered, assessed, or supported in partnership between 
the University of Strathclyde and one or more other organisations. 
 
Curriculum approval form 
 
A document which outlines a student’s planned activities during 
the mobility. The term curriculum approval form incorporates 
learning agreements, training agreements, and other plans of 
activity.  
 
Department  Refers to home or coordinating Faculty, Department, School, 
Directorate, or service within a Directorate, through which a 
student is undertaking the mobility.  
 
Exchange Coordinator The designated member of staff within a Department (as defined 
above) with whom students liaise on matters relating to mobility. 
 
Exchange Team Either the Recruitment and International Office Exchange Team, 
or the Strathclyde Business School Exchange Team. 
 
Partner institution An institution with which a collaborative provision agreement is in 
place. 
 
Senate The academic governing body within the University, responsible 
for all academic matters including academic standards and 
quality.  
 
Student mobility Encompasses all semester, full year, placement, or summer 
activities for the purpose of study, training, or work, at all levels of 
study, which a University of Strathclyde student undertakes away 
from their normal location of study. 
 
Study Abroad Fee-paying inbound mobility scheme for international students 
who wish to attend the University of Strathclyde for a semester or 
full year. This scheme is not in the scope of this Policy.  
 
Turing Scheme UK Government programme to provide funding for international 
opportunities in education and training. Funding applications to 
the Turing Scheme are handled by RIO, in collaboration with 
Faculties, and only facilitate outbound mobility.

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
INTRODUCTION 
  
1. The University of Strathclyde (hereafter the University) cooperates with partner 
institutions, where these support the University’s strategic objectives and where there 
is clear education benefit to students, to permit students to undertake periods of 
study, examinations, training, work placements, or cultural exchange at other 
universities or places of learning. The University recognises that links with partner 
institutions enrich the cultural life of students, stimulate teaching and research, and 
enhance the international standing of the University. 
  
2. The Policy for Student Mobility aligns with the UK Quality Code for Higher Education. 
  
3. The Policy should be referred to by staff providing guidance and support to students 
who are considering or currently participating in a period of mobility and is designed to 
support individual Departments’ practices relating to student mobility. 
  
4. This Policy outlines the guidelines, requirements, and responsibilities of students and 
staff involved in student mobility at the University of Strathclyde. 
  
5. This Policy should be read in conjunction with the existing Academic Policies and 
Procedures, particularly the Policy and Code of Practice on Collaborative Education 
Provision, as well as the OHS Standard: Safety Requirements for the Placement of 
Students, the OHS Standard: Travel and Work off University Campus – Staff and 
Students, and the University Travel Policy1. 
  
SCOPE 
  
6. This Policy applies to all periods of outward mobility that contribute to an award, form 
part of a programme of study, or are otherwise recognised by the University. Periods 
of outward mobility are those in which a student travels internationally, away from 
their normal place of study. 
  
 a. Mobility which is undertaken independently by students does not fall within the 
scope of this Policy.  
 b. Activities taking place within the UK are not in the scope of this Policy. 
  
7. Periods of mobility may include, but are not limited to:  
  
 a. Programmed mobility activities that form part of the structured programme of study 
for a cohort of students, or as part of a partnership or collaboration agreement 
entered into by the University, e.g., 
 i. Study exchange; 
 ii. Work placement, traineeship, or training; 
 iii. Cultural exchange; 
                                                           
1 In development

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
 
 iv. Summer Schools and other short-term mobility such as those offered 
through Access, Equality and Inclusion; 
 v. Field trips that form part of a taught programme, etc. 
  
 b. Ad hoc mobility activities arranged with the approval of a Department or Service 
for the benefit of an individual student or small group of students, e.g., 
 i. Research visits, data gathering, or research training; 
 ii. Summer schools; 
 iii. One-off work or study opportunities agreed with a Department, etc. 
  
8. The transfer of credits awarded by a partner institution as part of a student mobility 
programme is managed at Faculty, Department, or School-level and is not within the 
scope of this Policy. 
  
DEFINITIONS  
  
9. The University facilitates a range of international opportunities, each of which have 
slightly different administrative requirements and processes, and for the purpose of 
this Policy all such arrangements are referred to as student mobility. 
  
10. Reference to student mobility includes Summer School programmes which are 
recognised and facilitated by the University. Activities undertaken independently by 
students over the summer period do not fall within the scope of this Policy.  
  
11. The term Department is used throughout this Policy to refer to the home or 
coordinating Faculty, Department, School, Directorate, or service within a Directorate, 
through which a student is undertaking a period of mobility. 
  
12. Throughout this Policy, distinction is made between programmed mobility and ad hoc 
mobility, examples of which are outlined in section 7. 
  
13. The terms host country and host institution are used throughout this Policy to refer to 
the destination country or organisation in which the student will participate in a period 
of mobility. In the case of programmed mobility, the host institution will likely be 
another university with which Strathclyde has a bilateral exchange agreement or 
collaborative provision agreement in place (i.e., a partner institution). For ad hoc 
mobilities, this may be a partner institution or another type of organisation. 
  
PRINCIPLES OF STUDENT MOBILITY 
  
14. All programmed mobility activities should offer a student experience that is 
commensurate in terms of quality with the University of Strathclyde. Quality assurance 
mechanisms are outlined in the 
Policy and Code of Practice on Collaborative 
Education Provision.2 
                                                           
2 In development

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
  
15. Programmed student mobility arrangements must be established according to the 
Procedure outlined in the Policy and Code of Practice on Collaborative Education 
Provision.3 Bilateral agreements and other programmed student mobility 
arrangements will be recorded on Mobility Online. 
  
16. While undertaking a period of mobility, students will remain registered at the 
University and must continue to observe University policies and procedures while also 
recognising the policies and procedures of the host institution. Students are expected 
to uphold the behaviours outlined in the Strathclyde Community Commitment and 
adhere to Strathclyde’s Dignity and Respect Policy while at the host institution, and 
may be subject to Strathclyde’s Student Discipline Procedures in cases of misconduct 
during a period of mobility. 
  
17. Most students will have the opportunity to participate in student mobility activities 
during their degree, unless prohibited by existing academic regulations. In this case 
students should be supported to pursue mobility during University vacation periods. 
  
 a. Students in the Faculties of Engineering, Science, and Humanities and Social 
Sciences will normally apply for student mobility via the Recruitment and 
International Office (RIO) Exchange Team. 
 b. Students in Strathclyde Business School (SBS) will normally apply for student 
mobility via the SBS Exchange Team. 
 c. Students making ad hoc arrangements will normally liaise with their Exchange 
Coordinator, research supervisor, or the designated member of staff in a 
Department making arrangements for the mobility. 
  
18. Both programmed and ad hoc mobility activities should be subject to appropriate risk 
assessments, as outlined in sections 40-42 (e.g., Health and Safety Risk Assessment, 
Equality Impact Assessment), and should adhere to other legislative requirements 
including data protection. Relevant due diligence should also be carried out for ad hoc 
mobility opportunities, with particular regard to obligations under the University’s 
safeguarding policies and Occupational Health and Safety Policy. Due diligence 
procedures are outlined in the Policy and Code of Practice on Collaborative Education 
Provision.4 
  
BEFORE THE MOBILITY 
  
19. All participating students must register with Mobility Online in order to be fully visible 
to the RIO and SBS Exchange Teams. 
  
20. Exchange Coordinators or other relevant staff member(s) should provide all students 
with briefing information prior to commencing any mobility. This should include written 
guidance and, in the case of programmed mobility activities, a pre-departure briefing, 
                                                           
3 In development 
4 In development

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
 
delivered by RIO. Engagement with the pre-departure briefing is mandated as part of 
the final approval for programme mobility activities. 
  
 a. Engagement with pre-departure briefings should be recorded via Mobility Online 
by the Exchange Team. 
 b. Students subsequently must complete a pre-departure questionnaire.  
 c. Pre-departure briefing information must include the following: 
 i. Procedure in case of emergencies, and emergency contact information for 
the University; 
 ii. Information about how the University will communicate with the student 
during the mobility, and how their welfare will be monitored; 
 iii. Information for students on their involvement with the risk assessment 
process; 
 iv. Information on obtaining the relevant insurance; 
 v. Signposting to relevant travel and visa information; 
 vi. Guidance on how to raise concerns or make a complaint during or following 
the mobility; 
 vii. Signposting to information on the law and customs of the host country, and 
how this may relate to any equality considerations;  
 viii. Instruction that students are responsible for informing their host institution 
about their needs (e.g., a disability). 
  
21.  Students must be provided with a designated contact (named person or email 
address) within the Department with whom they can liaise regarding any issues or 
queries during the mobility. 
  
22. A risk assessment and Equality Impact Assessment must be completed for all periods 
of mobility. Please see sections 40-42 for more information. 
  
23. All students must receive formal approval to participate in student mobility. This will 
normally consist of two distinct approval processes: 
  
 a. Academic approval from the home Faculty/Department – in the case of 
programmed mobility, this will be communicated to the student by their Exchange 
Coordinator following the Board of Examiners meeting at the end of the semester 
preceding the mobility; while in the case of ad hoc mobility, this should be 
communicated by the student’s supervisor or the appropriate member of staff in 
the coordinating Department.  
 i. For students who are studying at the University on a Student Visa, the 
Department should ensure that any conditions associated with the visa (e.g., 
attendance monitoring) can be met during the period of mobility before 
academic approval is granted. 
 b. Approval of the risk assessment completed for the student’s planned mobility – 
please see sections 40-42 for more information. 
  
24. All students must apply for University travel insurance prior to commencement of the 
period of mobility. Please see sections 43-45 for more information.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
  
25. All students should document in writing a plan of activity for the period of mobility. 
This should be provisionally approved by the Department or Exchange Coordinator 
prior to the student’s departure. This may take the form of: 
  
 a. a Curriculum Approval Form, indicating their intended module choices;  
 b. a training agreement, outlining a programme for the mobility and skills and 
competencies to be acquired;  
 c. or another appropriate document which details their plan of activity.  
  
26. Students and staff should be aware that there may be restrictions on accessing some 
of the library’s online e-resources outside the UK due to licensing or technical issues.  
It is expected that students will primarily utilise the e-resources of the host institution 
or organisation during the mobility, however if a student will require regular access to 
University e-resources, the Department should consult the Library in relation to these. 
  
DURING THE MOBILITY 
  
27. The Department and/or the relevant Exchange Team must maintain records of 
students who are participating in mobility, updated regularly to reflect any changes to 
duration or withdrawals from the student mobility programme. 
  
28. Any changes to a student’s module choices or planned activities must be approved by 
the Department and accurately recorded in the Curriculum Approval Form or other 
plan of activity document. Students should be reminded that the award of credit is 
contingent on fulfilling Strathclyde degree requirements. 
  
29. The Department must maintain regular contact with the student. The frequency and 
nature of this communication may vary depending on the nature of the mobility. 
However, it is expected that Departments would contact students on programmed 
mobility activities at least twice per semester, pro-rated depending on the duration of 
the mobility. 
  
30. The Department has responsibility for monitoring the welfare of students who are 
participating in mobility activities, insofar as is reasonably practical, and should work 
with students to find appropriate solutions in the event of an issue arising during the 
mobility. However, it is expected that students undertaking programmed mobility 
activities would access support available through their host institution, where possible. 
In the event that appropriate support is not available from the host institution, the 
Department should be proactive in signposting to University support services. 
  
AFTER THE MOBILITY 
  
31. If applicable, the student must ensure that arrangements are in place for their 
transcript or equivalent document from the partner institution to be provided to the

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 
 
Department. Upon receipt of the transcript, the Department is responsible for the 
credit transfer process. 
  
32. Arrangements for the collection of post-mobility feedback should be made by the 
Exchange Teams and shared with local Exchange Coordinators. 
  
AD HOC MOBILITY 
  
33. Students will normally undertake mobility through an established bilateral exchange or 
with a recognised partner institution. However, where mobility is required for a specific 
purpose (e.g., for PGR students), including for the purpose of undertaking activities 
associated with research, processes may differ from those detailed above. The 
minimum administrative requirements for students undertaking mobility on an ad hoc 
basis are: 
  
 a. Registration with Mobility Online; 
 b. Completion of a risk assessment, co-ordinated by the Exchange Team(s) or 
Department (see sections 40-42); 
 c. Completion of the Travel Insurance Notification Form (available via Pegasus) at 
least 5 working days prior to departure (see section 43); 
 d. Approval by the Department of the student’s plan of activity for the mobility. 
  
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
  
34. Students must provide emergency contact information via Pegasus prior to 
commencement of the student mobility programme. Students are also strongly 
encouraged to provide a Wellbeing Contact, which may or may not be the same 
person as their emergency contact. Students should ensure both of these contacts 
are up to date and appropriate before and during the mobility. 
  
35. In the case of emergency incidents involving a student(s) who is participating in a 
mobility programme, the student (or the group leader if part of a group) should 
contact: 
  
 a. The local emergency services in the host country (e.g., Fire, Police, or Ambulance 
service as appropriate); 
 b. The designated company listed in the University’s Travel Insurance Policy, which 
the student will receive when they register for University travel insurance. This 
service operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and can advise on the most 
appropriate course of action to help students through an emergency situation. This 
is particularly important when medical costs will be incurred or admission to 
hospital is likely; 
 c. The University’s Security Control, where a significant incident has occurred, as 
this will activate the University’s Incident Response Plan for an Emergency Off 
Campus.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10 
 
  
36. In cases where the Incident Response Plan is activated, Security will collate the initial 
information and contact relevant staff including the Director of Student Experience. 
Depending on the nature of the emergency, per the Incident Response Plan, the 
Incident Management Team or the Head of Department are responsible for liaising 
with a student’s emergency contacts, informing Finance for insurance purposes, and 
authorising the provision of any extra resources required for the student (e.g., 
emergency funds, travel arrangements, etc.). 
  
37. If the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) changes its Travel 
Advice to warn against all travel to a region or a country, where any students are 
participating in mobility, then the University should undertake a risk assessment, 
coordinated by the Executive Dean in the respective Faculty, and may proceed to 
arrange evacuation of the student(s) in question. 
  
38. If the FCDO changes its Travel Advice to warn against all travel or to advise against 
non-essential travel to a region or a country prior to the commencement of a mobility 
programme, then the mobility cannot proceed. Only in exceptional circumstances and 
by approval of the appropriate Executive Dean and University Compliance Officer 
may a mobility activity proceed. 
  
39. Other countries may provide their citizens with instructions to leave a country or 
region, or avoid travel to a country or region, before the FCDO acts. Under such 
circumstances, the University will normally be guided by the advice of the FCDO, 
however a risk assessment can be completed on a case-by-case basis to assess the 
best course of action for a particular student. Any decisions made by the University as 
a result of FCDO advice will apply to all Strathclyde students, regardless of 
nationality. If FCDO issue guidance to leave the host country, a student may return to 
the UK or to their home country depending on which is the safest option for their 
individual circumstances. 
  
40. In the case that a student remains in country against FCDO guidance, this may void 
the student’s right to University insurance. Such occurrences will be dealt with on a 
case-by-case basis. 
  
RISK ASSESSMENT 
  
41. A Health and Safety (H&S) risk assessment, including a Threat Assessment for the 
host country, must be completed for all student mobilities. H&S risk assessments 
must be conducted and recorded on the e-risk assessment system.  
  
 a. In the case of programmed mobility, the risk assessment should be organised by 
the appropriate Exchange Team. 
 b. In the case of ad hoc mobility, the Department is responsible for carrying out a risk 
assessment for the planned mobility.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11 
 
42. The nature and complexity of the risk assessment will vary according to the type of 
mobility activity and should be commensurate with the level of risk identified. More 
information about the requirements of the risk assessment can be found in section 4 
and Annex 5 of the Safety Requirements for the Placement of Students. 
  
43. A template H&S risk assessment and guidance on Threat Assessment can be found 
on the University’s website5. 
  
INSURANCE 
  
44. All students must apply for University insurance by completing the Travel Insurance 
Notification Form (available via Pegasus) at least 5 working days prior to departure. 
On confirmation of cover, students will receive an email cover note providing the 
policy number, emergency contact details, and a summary of the cover provided 
under the University’s travel insurance policy. Until this is received, insurance is not 
guaranteed. 
  
45. Depending on the nature of the activity, students may have to purchase additional 
insurance cover to supplement the standard University travel insurance. It is the 
student’s responsibility to ensure they have appropriate insurance cover for the 
duration of their period of mobility. 
  
46. Students are responsible for meeting any additional insurance requirements of the 
host institution or organisation. 
  
COMPLAINTS, WHISTLEBLOWING, AND SAFEGUARDING 
  
47. All students have the right of complaint through the University’s Complaints 
Procedure. Complaints will be dealt with as outlined in the Procedure. 
  
48. All students have the right to utilise Report & Support, a facility where anyone can 
disclose behaviours or issues they believe put the safety of the Strathclyde 
community at risk. Any student who wishes to make a whistleblowing disclosure (if 
they have discovered information which they reasonably believe shows malpractice or 
wrongdoing within Strathclyde or the host institution, that they believe to be in the 
public interest) may do so through Report & Support. 
  
49. Staff and students should familiarise themselves and be aware of their duty to comply 
with the Safe360° Safeguarding Policy. 
 
                                                           
5 In development