--- PAGE 1 ---

POLICY ON 
MODERATION AND 
DOUBLE MARKING 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 Policy on Moderation 
and Double Marking 
– applicable to both 
undergraduate and 
postgraduate taught 
courses 
Assessment 
and Feedback 
Working 
Group 
Senate  
 
From academic 
year 2019-20 
 Version 1.0 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
1 
 
1. RATIONALE 
The QAA UK Quality Code for Higher Education  notes the expectations for higher education 
providers to provide clear processes for staff  involved in internal quality assurance of 
assessments, namely moderation and double marking. The aim s of these processes are to 
ensure that appropriate (fair, valid and reliable) and rigorous standards are applied to summative 
assessments, and that the standards are applied consistently across a cohort and in line with 
published assessment criteria. The marking of all summative assessments should be in alignment 
with published assessment criteria and appropriate standards, and should be subject to 
moderation in a way that fits the discipline, the nature of the assessment, and the credit-weighting 
of the assessment. This approach to marking is commonly referred to as ‘criteria-referenced’, 
where students’ work is assessed agains t explicit criteria . The University does not  endorse a 
‘norm-referenced’ approach to marking, where a fixed proportion (or narrow range of proportions) 
of students are awarded grades within each grade band. This policy aims to provide guidance to 
staff on implementing these internal processes in undergraduate and postgraduate taught 
assessments. These processes, conducted internally by staff, are carried out in addition to the 
quality assurance process conducted by External Examiners , where duties include approving 
assessment design, moderating the achievement of students set by the University and/or 
professional and statutory bodies for all classes  in order to ensure comparability of standards . 
Guidance on the role of External Examiners can be found here.  
 
2. WHAT IS MODERATION? 
The process of moderation is independent of the marking of individual assessments , and is a 
process that aims to ensure that the marking of assessments is fair, valid, and reliable, and that 
assessment criteria have been applied consistently across students’  work, within and across 
markers. Moderation will take different forms, depending on the nature of the assessment, level 
of study, and credit-weighting, and while co-ordinated by course leaders , it is likely that all 
members of a course team will contribute to moderation. 
 
3. WHEN IS MODERATION REQUIRED? 
Appropriate moderation processes are required for all summative assessments. The process of 
moderation takes place after all marking has been carried out. Time should be allocated to the 
process for all summative assessments so that moderation, and any actions from moderation, 
will be completed prior to the return of grades and/or feedback to students within the agreed time 
frame. (Note that the University expects feedback on coursework to be returned to students within 
15 working days of an assessment submission).  While moderation is not required for non-
weighted assessments (sometimes called formative assessments), arrangements should also be 
in place here to ensure consistency of marking and feedback. 
 
4. METHODS OF MODERATION 
As previously mentioned, the appropriate method of moderation will depend on the discipline, the 
nature of the assessment and the assessment’s credit weighting.

--- PAGE 3 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
2 
 
Internal m oderation is the process of reviewing a sample of work to check that grades and 
feedback consistently align to the set assessment criteria for the level of study.  
In addition to this process of internal moderation, unseen double-marking is where an assessment 
is independently marked by two markers who do not have access to the grades or comments of 
the other marker . Seen double-marking is the process where an assessment is independently 
marked by two markers, but where the second marker has access to the marks or comments of 
the first marker. The following provides guidance as to the appropriate method of moderation. 
The expectation will normally be that the internal moderation process is followed for classes of 
20 credits or less, where a sample of assessments are moderated,  rather than double-marked. 
Double-marking will only be used following the conditions below, or where professional bodies 
require it.  
 
4.1 Double-marking 
The method of double- marking will normally be used for all summative assessments  where an 
assessment has a credit weighting of 40 credits or higher. It is recommended that unseen double 
marking is carried out for highly weighted summative assessments, and for dissertations or final 
year projects, where the student is known to the first marker. Some areas may use seen double-
marking for summative assessments with a high credit weighting.  
 
4.2 Internal moderation  
Internal moderation should be carried out only by suitably qualified University staff  (determined 
by the Department/School). The process of internal moderation should be used for all summative 
assessments where: 
4.2.1 An assessment has been marked by one marker:  A sample of the marked assessments 
should be reviewed by a moderator. The sample should normally include around 10% of 
the marked assessments , and should cover the full range of grades awarded by the 
marker. In addition to this sample, all assessments that have been graded a ‘Fail’ should 
be included in the sample for moderation. Where the total number of assessments is 10 
or less, the whole batch should be moderated. The moderator should be provided with the 
complete list of grades awarded, and where possible,  summary statistics for the 
assessment (e.g. mean mark, standard deviation, minimum and maximum marks).  See 
Appendix 1 for guidance on generating these statistics in Myplace. 
4.2.2 An assessment is marked by more than one marker:  In this case, moderators should be 
provided with a sample of marking from  each individual marker, as well as the complete 
list of grades awarded, and where possible, summary statistics for each marker (e.g. mean 
mark, standard deviation, minimum and maximum marks). The sample should normally 
include around 10% of the marked assessments, and should cover the full range of grades 
awarded. In addition to this sample, all assessments that have been graded a ‘Fail’ should 
be included in the sample for moderation.  Appendix 2 shows examples of effective 
moderation practice where an assessment is marked by multiple markers. 
4.2.3 A module is delivered by more than one teaching team (e.g. in more than one geographical 
location, or mode of delivery), a separate sample should be moderated for each cohort.

--- PAGE 4 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
3 
 
4.2.4 Assessments are marked using highly structured and objective marking schemes : 
Moderation may simply involve procedural checking in order to ensure the marking 
scheme is appropriate and is applied consistently across a sample of marking.  
4.2.5 Assessments are computer marked: For assessments such as multiple choice 
examinations and assessments that are conducted online and marked by a computer, 
moderation will simply involve checking that the software is accurately assessing answers 
to each question, and calculating overall marks correctly. 
4.2.6 Assessments do not result in physical artefacts: Where an assessment does not result in 
the creation of a physical object (e.g. a piece of written work ), such as presentations, 
assessment on placement s, live performances, or practical demonstrations , 
arrangements could be made for the moderator to observe a sample of the assessments, 
via either their presence at the time of the assessment or via a video recording. Where 
these options are not feasible (e.g. tutorial performance or placement assessments), the 
following arrangements could be put in place: 
a. Involve a second marker in assessing students’ work. For example, two markers can 
be present during student presentations , following which, the two markers agree a 
single mark.  
b. Clearly specify written assessment criteria and take steps to ensure all markers have 
a shared understanding of how they should apply the criteria. At honours and 
postgraduate levels, the criteria should be discussed with an external examiner before 
the assessment is undertaken for the first time.  
c. Following the marking of all assessments, the class leader should review the grades 
awarded by each marker . Wh ere marks for a marker(s) appear significantly 
inconsistent with marks awarded by other markers of the assessment, the class leader 
should discuss this with the marker concerned. Marks may then be adjusted,  if it is 
agreed that the marking criteria was not applied fully and consistently across students. 
4.2.7 Assessments that are marked by tutors and postgraduate students: Where assessments 
are marked by external tutors, visiting lecturers/new staff, or postgraduate students, it is 
expected that moderation processes will be more robust, usually through sampling a 
greater proportion of marked work. It is important to communicate upfront the moderation 
process to all markers, and the need for markers to be available during the moderation 
period to respond to any points made by the moderator.  
 
5. RESOLVING DIFFERENCES IN MARKS BETWEEN MODERATORS AND MARKERS 
Moderators may disagree with marks and/or provided feedback. This disagreement may be minor 
(i.e. reflect only a small grade difference) and limited to only isolated cases, or it may reflect more 
consistent disagreement in the marks awarded, perhaps pointing in a single direction (e.g. 
grading is too generous or too harsh in line with the assessment criteria), or it may be due to 
greater variability in the extent to which grades align with the assessment criteria. Individual 
grades of sampled assessments should not be recommended for adjustment, unless: a) the 
marker has specifically requested that individual’s grade be checked; or b) the appropriate range 
pertaining to that individual grade, or grade band, is then checked for all students in the class or 
all marking carried out by an individual marker . Moderators may also request changes in the 
content, tone, or detail of feedback, in order to improve the alignment between grades and 
feedback, the usefulness of the feedback (i.e. comments that support the development of future 
work), and between feedback and the assessment criteria.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
4 
 
 
6. RESOLVING DIFFERENCES IN MARKS BETWEEN DOUBLE MARKERS 
Where two markers have a difference in marks , a discussion should take place regarding the 
strengths and limitations of a piece of work and how it aligns with the assessment criteria with a 
view to agreeing the final mark . Where agreement is not reached between a first and second 
marker, and there is a difference of 6 marks or more, a third marker may be appointed to arrive 
at a final mark.  Where the difference is less than 6 marks, and agreement is not reached, the 
average of the two marks, rounded up, should be awarded. The third marker may wish to view 
the grades and comments of each marker, prior to determining the final mark to be awarded. A 
record of how marks have been agreed should be maintained.  
 
7. SCALING OF MARKS 
Scaling of marking will be undertaken only in exceptional circumstances, for example, where 
evidence has been provided that a  set of marks for an assessment do not accurately  reflect 
student attainment of the learning outcomes being assessed. It is anticipated that in the majority 
of cases the examiners will be satisfied with module performance and no scaling of marks should 
be considered necessary . However, and exce ptionally, in cases where module performance 
indicates a deviation from normal expectations, the Course Director and module coordinators  
should investigate reasons as to why this may the case. Appendix 3 provides more information 
on the procedure that should be followed in the event that a set of marks require scaling. 
 
8. MAINTAINING RECORDS OF THE MODERATION PROCESS 
The process of moderation and associated outcomes should be recorded, as part of the record 
of an assessment and to support transparency and consistency in the steps taken to ensure the 
quality assurance in the assessment of students’ work. This record can be reflected on within the 
module review process. Appendix 4 shows an example form that can be used for this purpose. 
Records of moderation should be kept for the same time period of associated assessments. 
 
9. COMMUNICATION OF MODERATION PROCESSES 
Often students are unaware of the range of checks and balances in place to ensure quality 
assurance of assessment and feedback. It is  good practic e to communicate to students the 
programme level approach to moderation, as making transparent the range of measures taken is 
likely to promote trust. An example communication to students is available in Appendix 5 for staff 
to edit to reflect the approach within their own programmes.  
 
10. RESPONSIBILITIES FOR IMPLEMENTATION 
10.1 Boards of Examiners are responsible for:  responding to the comments  of External 
Examiners following external moderation for which they are responsible. 
10.2 Heads of Department/School are responsible for ensuring: that all staff within their area 
of responsibility are aware of this policy, and that the policy is implemented.

--- PAGE 6 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
5 
 
10.3 Programme leaders/Directors of Teaching  are responsible for ensuring: this policy is 
implemented within their areas of responsibility ; the records of moderation processes are 
provided to External Examiners, where appropriate;  that scaling of marks is done only in 
exceptional cases  and in consultation with the Head of Department/School . Programme 
leaders/Directors of Teaching are also responsible for identifying any areas of development 
for staff and teaching teams relating to assessment and feedback and course planning. 
10.4 Module Coordinators/staff setting the assessment are responsible for:  Communicating 
the moderation process to all markers, including the timing for returning any amendments to 
marking; and Communicating the moderation process to students. 
10.5 Markers of assessments are responsible for: responding to the comments made by a 
Moderator in the time frame requested. 
 
11. DEFINITION OF TERMS 
 
External moderation Moderation of summative assessments by an external examiner. 
Internal moderation The process of reviewing a sample of work to check that grades and 
feedback consistently align to the set assessment criteria for the 
level of study.  
Scaling The process of applying a numeric adjustment to a set of marks. 
Seen double marking Where an assessment is independently marked by two markers, but 
where the second marker has access to the marks or comments of 
the first marker. 
Unseen double marking 
 
Where an assessment is independently marked by two markers who 
do not have access to the grades or comments of the other marker.

--- PAGE 7 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
6 
 
Appendix 1. Guidance on generating descriptive statistics to support moderation 
 
1.1 Generate descriptive statistics for Myplace assignments 
Descriptive statistics can be generated for Myplace assignments by using the "Activity statistics" 
link in the assignment administration menu. By default this shows a bar chart of grades for the 
assignment in bands of 5 percentage points, and statistics such as mean and standard deviation 
for the grades given. Where classes are using groups, these charts and statistics can be 
generated per group, either by selecting a specific grouping or all groups. The data for the class 
as a whole and the selected groups  can be exported to a CSV file for processing outside of 
Myplace. 
 
1.2 Use Microsoft Excel to generate descriptive statistics 
The following ‘functions’ can be used to generate descriptive statistics for a set of marks in Excel. 
Returns the average (arithmetic mean) of the arguments. For example, if the range A1:A20 
contains numbers, the formula =AVERAGE(A1:A20) returns the average of the marks in column 
A, rows 1:20. The table below shows the function for a number of useful descriptive statistics. 
 
Purpose Statistic Function 
Measure of central 
tendency for 
symmetrical distributions 
Mean mark =average(A1:A20) 
Measure of central 
tendency for skewed 
distributions 
Median mark =median(A1:A20) 
Measure of dispersion in 
the data from the mean 
Standard deviation =stdev(A1:A20) 
The lowest mark in the 
data 
Minimum mark =min(A1:A20) 
The highest mark in the 
data 
Maximum mark =max(A1:A20)

--- PAGE 8 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
7 
 
Appendix 2. Some examples of effective practice 
 
Where an assessment is marked by multiple markers. 
In the contexts of large class sizes, moderators may find it beneficial to do one of the following 
either prior to the commencement of marking, or early in the marking process: 
1.1 Request that all markers (particularly where postgr aduate markers are used) send their 
first marked assessment for review to the class leader, or staff member who set the 
assessment. This provides an opportunity for markers to receive comments on the grade 
and feedback they have provided, for consideration in the remainder of their marking. 
1.2 Set up a meeting for all markers in order to develop a shared understanding of the 
standards and assessment criteria. 
1.3 To support moderation, calculate the mean grade, and the minimum and maximum grades, 
awarded by each marker, and for the class as a whole. (See Appendix 1 for guidance).

--- PAGE 9 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
8 
 
Appendix 3. Procedure for the Scaling of marks 
As stated in Section 7, the scaling of marks should only be carried out in exceptional 
circumstances and in consultation with the Director of Teaching and Head of Department/School. 
In their investigation, the module coordinators and examiners should consider the following: 
1. Is there statistical evidence of a deviation in overall module performance based on 
historical records? (Note that statistical evaluation of modules with small class sizes can 
be problematic) 
2. Has the original marking scheme been fairly constructed, implemented and appropriately 
applied? 
3. Is there evidence for a technical or operational failure in teaching delivery or in the 
assessment process?  
a. Operational failures in teaching delivery could include: 
i. Poor pre-assessment guidance to students that conflicts with the knowledge 
and skills tested in the assessment. 
ii. Assessed material weighting does not reflect the balance of the course 
curriculum. 
iii. Teaching delivery or study time was compromised. 
b. Failure of assessment could reflect the following: 
i. Ambiguous questions 
ii. Non-anticipated solutions to questions 
iii. Errors in questions 
iv. Poor description of examination structure and assessment weighting 
v. Unforeseeable circumstances. 
 
If there is evidence that the distribution of class marks for the majority of the registered students 
has been adversely affected by a technical or operational factor, then scaling may be considered. 
If teaching delivery and assessment methods are considered to be fair and reasonable, no scaling 
should be recommended by the module organiser. Individual student circumstances contributing 
to poor performance are dealt with separately under personal circumstances procedures. Scaling 
should not be applied to bring the average mark of a module into a specific range of marks without 
specific evidence of concerns in the delivery or assessment of that module. 
 
Scaling Implementation 
Scaling must be overs een by the Director of Teaching and Head of Department/School . Any 
scaling method must be uniformly applied to all students registered on a module that have made 
a bone fide attempt to complete the required assessment. C are should be taken not to over -
compensate student performance. The method of scaling may include:  
1. The simple addition of a constant to the raw mark(s).  
2. The application of a multiplication factor. 
𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 𝑚𝑚𝑠𝑠𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚= 𝐴𝐴× (100 − 𝑚𝑚𝑠𝑠𝑟𝑟 𝑚𝑚𝑠𝑠𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚) + 𝑚𝑚𝑠𝑠𝑟𝑟 𝑚𝑚𝑠𝑠𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 
 
where A could equal 0.05 or 0.1, for example, which benefits lower scorers more and ensures all 
marks are below 100%, whilst

--- PAGE 10 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
9 
 
 
𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 𝑚𝑚𝑠𝑠𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚= 𝐴𝐴× 𝑚𝑚𝑠𝑠𝑟𝑟 𝑚𝑚𝑠𝑠𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 
 
where A = 1.05 or 1.1, for example, benefits higher scorers more, and does not prevent the scaled 
mark exceeding 100%, and thus should be used with care. 
 
3. The exclusion of an assessed component or exam question from the calculation of the final 
mark. 
 
 
Scaling should normally follow a two stage process 
Stage 1: If module scaling is deemed necessary, the scaling method should be chosen, applied 
and the impact on the distribution of module marks determined. The module coordinator should 
seek the approval of the Course Director and the Head of Department prior to the scaled marks 
being uploaded. 
Stage 2: The case for scaling should be made by the Department to the Board of Examiners prior 
to the presentation of the schedule of marks. If the Board of Examiners does not consent to the 
scaling, the un-scaled results for the module should stand. Therefore, the un-scaled marks must 
be available at the Board of Examiners should the Board of Examiners disagree to the scaling 
action.

--- PAGE 11 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
10 
 
Appendix 4. Example Moderation Form 
 
Report on moderation of marking 
Moderation guidelines: The sample should normally include around 10% of the marked 
assessments, and should cover the full range of grades awarded by the marker. In addition to 
this sample, all assessments that have been graded a ‘Fail’ should be included in the sample for 
moderation. Individual marks should not be recommended for adjustment unless a) the marker 
has specific ally requested that an individual mark be checked or b) the appropriate r ange 
pertaining to that individual mark is then checked for all students in the class, or for all 
assessments marked by a specific marker(s). Please maintain a record of the assessments 
sampled (e.g. for examinations, initial scripts, and for other assessm ents, record a note of the 
registration numbers/participant IDs of those that were sampled). 
Section A: To be completed by module lead and sent to Internal moderator 
Academic year and Semester: 
Module Code and Name: 
Assessment Type and Description (e.g. written exam, essay): 
Assessment title: 
 
Marker(s)  Internal 
Moderator 
 Class 
size 
 Sample size 
for 
moderation 
 
 
Student ID First Marker 
Mark 
Comments (if appropriate) 
   
   
 
Distribution of marks across grade classifications 
MEAN & SD   RANGE  
Fails  40s  
50s  60s  
70s  80s+  
Section B: To be completed by Internal moderator 
I confirm that I have sampled a range of grades from all markers, and on the basis of the 
sample considered, the marking of this assessment is:

--- PAGE 12 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
11 
 
Consistent with the assessment criteria 
If NO is indicated, please provide details in the comments section below 
Yes/No 
Overall comments on the quality of work and any other form of feedback: 
 
Recommendations of adjustments to be made to marks and/or feedback: 
 
Adjustment agreed by first marker and moderator: Yes/No 
If No, why not? 
 
 
Only complete if necessary: 
 
Section C: To be completed by External Examiner 
I confirm that I have sampled a range of grades from all markers, and on the basis of the 
sample considered, the marking of this assessment is: 
Consistent with the assessment criteria 
If NO is indicated, please provide details in the comments section below 
 
Yes/No 
Overall comments on the quality of work and any other form of feedback: 
 
External PRINT NAME:  
Signature:  
Date:

--- PAGE 13 ---

Policy on Moderation and Double Marking  
12 
 
Appendix 5. Example communication to students regarding the moderation process. 
 
5.1 Email template communicating the moderation process to students 
Dear Students, 
The marking of your assessment will take place in the immediate days following the submission 
deadline. Consistent with our quality assurance process, a proportion of all assessments  will be 
scrutinised to ensure accuracy and consistency in the marking and feedback process, before the 
marks and feedback are returned to you. This process is part of a wider set of processes that are 
used to ensure that all stakeholders (students, families, the university, the government, the public, 
and employers etc) maintain confidence in the UK H.E.'s assessment system.  
The role of External Examiners (that is , experienced members of academic staff from 
departments in other UK universities)  in the UK higher education system is an extremely 
important one; their task is to ensure that our assessment and feedback procedures are robust, 
fair, and that we apply standards that are consistent with other universities in the UK. This process 
ensures that all stakeholders (students, families, the university, the government, the public, and 
employers etc) maintain confidence in the UK H.E.'s assessment system.  
Only once this process has been complete will we be in a position to release your grades and 
feedback. The date for this will be: