--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY ON THE 
RECOGNITION OF PRIOR 
LEARNING AND CREDIT 
TRANSFER 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A policy confirming 
arrangements for the 
Recognition of Prior 
Learning and credit 
transfer 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate  
 
From AY 2021 -
22 
1.1 A minor amendment 
to clarify the 
approval route for 
internal credit 
transfer.  
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate April 2023 
1.2 Amendment to the 
Form in Appendix B. 
Education 
Enhancement/ 
Student 
Business 
Senate February 2024 
 Version 1.2 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
Contents 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS .................................................................................................................... 3 
SCOPE .................................................................................................................................................. 4 
INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................................. 5 
DEFINITIONS ....................................................................................................................................... 5 
THE APPLICATION OF RPL AND CREDIT TRANSFER IN THE UNIVERSITY ..................... 6 
CREDIT TRANSFER ........................................................................................................................... 7 
THE USE AND RE-USE OF CREDIT ............................................................................................... 7 
RECOGNITION OF PRIOR LEARNING .......................................................................................... 8 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES ................................................................................................... 9 
APPEALS .............................................................................................................................................. 9 
Appendix A – Useful Resources .................................................................................................. 10 
Appendix B: Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)/ Credit Transfer Application FormError! 
Bookmark not defined.

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
 
Accredited Prior Learning Where previous study with a recognised educational 
organisation has been formally assessed and can be 
expressed in terms of credit (with or without grades). 
Advanced standing Applicants who achieve exceptional grades in their 
Advanced Highers, A-levels or International 
Baccalaureate (SCQF Level 7) or have successfully 
completed an HC or HND at college may be considered 
for Direct Entry normally into year two of a University 
Honours or Integrated Masters programme. In some 
circumstances, a student may be awarded advanced 
standing credits based on their qualifications achieved 
before starting at the University that can count towards 
the total number of credits needed, reducing the 
number of modules a student must take during their 
studies. 
Articulation Whereby all students who satisfy academic criteria on 
programmes where formal curriculum matching has 
taken place are automatically entitled on academic 
grounds to be admitted with advanced standing to a 
University programme. 
Board of Study A Faculty’s senior academic committee, which makes 
recommendations directly to Senate and takes some 
decisions on behalf of Senate via delegated authority.  
Direct entry Where students enter into a University programme 
normally in the second year, with Advanced Standing.  
External Credit transfer Students may apply for external credit transfer if they 
have earned credit at, or validated by, another UK 
higher education institution with degree-awarding 
powers. 
Exemptions Students who have partially completed a programme 
from another education provider may be granted an 
exemption in particular module(s) as long as curriculum 
matching has taken place and appropriate supporting 
evidence has been presented. 
Experiential Prior Learning Where informal, but potentially assessable, learning 
has been acquired through relevant, adequate, and 
recent experience in a wide variety of settings. 
Internal Credit Transfer Students may apply for internal credit transfer, where 
they transfer their credits from one Strathclyde 
programme, usually to pursue a higher award in the 
same or a similar discipline.

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
Professional, Statutory and 
Regulatory Body 
PSRBs accredit or endorse programmes that meet 
professional standards, provide a route through to the 
professions or are recognised by employers. 
Recognition of Prior Learning  A method of assessing whether a learner’s experience 
and achievements meet the evidence requirements (ie 
the standard) of a module.  
Senate The academic governing body within the University,   
responsible for all academic matters including 
academic standards and quality.  
Work-based Learning Incorporates learning through work, learning for work 
and/or learning at work. It consists of authentic 
structured opportunities for learning which are achieved 
in a workplace setting or are designed to meet an 
identified workplace need. This type of learning typically 
has a dual function of being designed to meet the 
learning needs of the employees, developing their 
knowledge, skills and professional behaviours, and also 
meeting the workforce development needs of the 
organisation (QAA, 2018) 
 
 
SCOPE 
1. This Policy applies to all taught modules, including taught modules within postgraduate 
research programmes. All students on these programmes are eligible for RPL and credit 
transfer, including those students enrolled through collaborative agreements. Any 
exemptions to the Policy must be approved by the relevant Board of Study and Senate, 
as detailed within this Policy  
 
2. This Policy deals with how prior learning can be recognised across the University to 
enable exemption from specific modules of a programme and/or to allow advanced entry 
leading to a qualification. The Senate has devolved to faculties the management and 
assessment of RPL and credit transfer within this Policy. 
 
3. The transfer of credits awarded by an overseas degree awarding institution as part of a 
Study Abroad or Erasmus exchange arrangement are managed through the Recruitment 
and International Office and ar e not within the scope of this Policy .  
 
4. The transfer of credits, ‘advanced standing’ for articulation agreements or other learning 
within collaborative programmes is managed within each Faculty’s Admissions  team or 
equivalent. 
 
5. Students may apply with advanced standing for direct entry  into year 2 of an 
undergraduate honours programme through UCAS. For these individual applications, the 
University’s Admissions and Student Lifecycle Services team will liaise directly  with the 
relevant academic selector to consider the student’s qualifications.  
 
6. RPL and credit transfer can only be applied to taught modules and not for modules where 
the main form of assessment is a dissertation or research project. Only the taught element

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
 
of a Postgraduate Research award may be granted RPL or credit transfer. For further 
information regarding the use of existing research and/or published output as part of any 
examinable part of the research degree, refer to the Code of Practice for Postgraduate 
Research Students. 
 
7. This Policy should be read in conjunction with the University’s Admissions Policy , the 
General Academic Regulations, the programme specific regulations and the Equality and 
Diversity policies. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
8. The University of Strathclyde (hereafter the University) recognises that knowledge and 
skills can be developed in a diverse range of formal and informal learning contexts. The 
University seeks to accommodate the Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)  and credit 
transfer as a means of providing appropriate entry to and progression within 
undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. This commitment to supporting the use of 
RPL and credit transfer  reflects the University’s leading role in widening access to and 
participation in higher education.  
 
9. The University’s Policy on RPL has been developed and aligns with QAA Scotland’s  
Recognition of Prior Learning National Framework for Scottish Higher Education). 
 
10. There is no obligation for any department/school to formally consider requests for RPL or 
credit transfer , provided it can demonstrate this  would not be appropriate to the 
programme or nature of provision offered (for example, due to the requirements of a 
professional body).  
 
11. Where an RPL or credit transfer  claim can be formally considered, a Board of Study 
should appoint the Head of Department/School  to deliberate on entry to or partial 
exemption from a programme provided this is done in accordance with relevant University 
procedures and against criteria defined by an individual programme.  
 
DEFINITIONS  
 
12. This Policy distinguishes between credit transfer and the recognition of prior learning, 
defined as follows:  
 
a. Credit Transfer: where the credits or qualification(s) have been awarded by a UK 
higher education degree-awarding body in accordance with the relevant higher 
education qualifications framework. Credit transfer may be internal ( eg from BSc in 
Mathematics to the BA in Management Science ) or external (ie from a UK higher 
education degree-awarding body to Strathclyde). It is only the marks for internal credit 
transfer that are retained and used in credit weighted average calculations. Marks are 
not normally retained for either internal or external credit transfer when determining 
the final degree classification.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
b. Accredited Prior Learning: where previous study with a recognised educational 
organisation has been formally assessed and can be expressed in terms of credit.  
 
c. Experiential Prior Learning:  where non-formal and informal , but nonetheless 
potentially assessable, learning has been acquired through relevant, adequate, and 
recent experience. 
 
13. Normally, a student’s learning will be handled as either credit transfer or RPL;  however, 
there may be occasions where both need to be considered ie a student has a combination 
of UK credit and prior learning.  
 
14. For both credit transfer and RPL, the minimum level of assessment is a module. Students 
cannot apply for credit for or exemption from part of a module.  
 
THE APPLICATION OF RPL AND CREDIT TRANSFER IN THE UNIVERSITY 
 
15. RPL and credit transfer have three distinct purposes in the University. These are:  
 
a. To provide evidence to support admission to a programme;  
 
b. To allow for direct entry on to a programme; and, 
 
c. To allow exemption from specific modules within a programme. 
 
16. For undergraduate programmes, the maximum number of credits for which credit transfer 
and/ or RPL can be applied is normally 25%, and will not exceed 50% of a four year  
undergraduate Honours degree subject to Senate approval. 
 
17. For Integrated Masters programmes, the maximum number of credits for which credit 
transfer and/ or RPL can be applied is normally 20%, and will not exceed 40% of a five 
year Integrated Masters degree subject to Senate approval.  
 
18. The number of credits for which credit transfer and/ or RPL can be applied to a 
Postgraduate Taught programme is normally one third of the total number of credits on 
the programme. For any exceptions to this Faculties must provide a clear rationale as to 
why such an exception should be considered by Senate.  
 
19. For internal credit transfer that exceeds the credit limits outlined in paragraphs 16-18, 
the standard internal credit transfer process will apply and on approval by the Board of 
Study, be reported to Senate for information. 
 
20. If internal credit transfer is approved by the Board of Study  and where appropriate, 
students will not be asked to ‘hand back’ any previously earned degree, diploma or 
certificate until the higher level award has been achieved and conferred.  
 
21. Any programme-specific variations to these regulations must be identified and approved 
at the point of programme approval or review (for example, some awards may exclude or

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
 
limit the use of RPL due to Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Body (PSRB) 
requirements).  
CREDIT TRANSFER  
 
22. Students may apply for external credit transfer, subject to the number of credits above, 
provided they have earned credit at  a validated UK higher education institution with 
degree-awarding powers.  
 
23. Applications for credit transfer require academic judgement in determining whether prior 
module content (for which the student has earned credit) can be mapped onto a 
module/modules at the University. A student’s application should therefore include 
evidence of credit  received, (a transcript or equivalent) , plus a module descriptor or  
syllabus that provides evidence of the learning outcomes achieved.  
 
24. Credit transfer can be applied internally, to modules that have achieved a pass mark.  In 
such instances, the relevant mark will be retained as per para 12a. 
THE USE AND RE-USE OF CREDIT  
 
25. Credits may be awarded for prior learning where the level, standard, content and 
relevance of that learning is appropriate to a particular programme and has normally taken 
place within a period of five years. In particular, credit may be awarded via RPL for: 
  
a. individual modules, where it can be demonstrated that the learning outcomes for the 
module through knowledge, understanding, and/or skills that they already possess 
are met as a result of prior learning; and/or, 
  
b. for a full year of study (i.e. 120 credits), where the applicant or student can 
demonstrate that they meet the learning outcomes for the relevant year of study 
through knowledge, understanding, and/or skills that they already possess as a result 
of prior learning.  
 
26. Credit for a completed award can only be used to seek advanced standing on to a 
programme leading to an award at a higher level. Credit for a completed award cannot 
be used towards another award at the same level, as this would constitute double-
counting of credit, unless the following criteria are met: 
  
a. The programme is in a different subject, vocational or professional area to their  prior 
award at undergraduate or postgraduate level; or, 
 
b. The award is at SCQF
 level 11 (Masters level) and enables the student to advance in 
their existing subject in a new or specialist direction. 
 
27. A student granted RPL credit cannot subsequently re -use that credit towards a further 
award offered at the University, unless the student is granted credit for prior learning as 
part of a programme with a direct progression route.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
28. In line with SCQF guidance, credits awarded are considered to be of the same value as 
those gained within the University. However, as per para 12a the credits are normally 
accepted as ungraded and therefore do not contribute to the final degree classification on 
any programme.  
 
RECOGNITION OF PRIOR LEARNING 
    
29. Matching prior learning to the learning outcomes of a programme or module is an 
academic judgement and as such departments  and schools are responsible for making 
and recording detailed decisions on RPL through their Board of Study. 
 
30. The Board of Study may , with the approval of Senate, admit applicants and/or approve 
exemption from part of a programme by RPL provided this is done in accordance with 
University procedures. 
 
31. An applicant can be accepted for a programme or awarded an exemption for a particular 
module where the applicant or student can evidence that their accredited or experiential 
learning matches the appropriate learning outcomes and meets the following criteria: 
  
a. Relevant – the learning gained provides the applicant with knowledge and skills which 
are relevant to the programme; 
  
b. Sufficient – the learning gained from accredited study is of an equivalent academic 
level to the standard entry requirement or content of a module or programme, and that 
the breadth and depth of prior experiential learning is considered to be sufficient to 
demonstrate the applicant’s potential; 
  
c. Verifiable – the evidence provided can be authenticated as being the outcome of the 
learner’s own effort; 
  
d. Recent – the learning meets the University’s requirement for recent study (i.e. 
normally within 5 years of application). However, Heads of Department or Schools 
may adjust the restrictions on the recency of learning cited in any claim for RPL in line 
with their judgement on demands of specific programmes, particularly where a 
qualification is followed by a period of related practice. 
  
32. Where RPL  is r outinely used in the admissions process for a programme, detailed 
information will be available to applicants about the evidence they will be required to 
provide and how this will be used in the admissions process.  
 
33. It is essential that an applicant who wishes to make an application based on RPL 
discusses this with the relevant department/ school  admissions staff before an 
application is submitted.  
 
34. The University recognises  the implications of granting applications for RPL w here 
professional and regulatory bodies impose any particular restrictions on the use of RPL 
and this will be reflected in the handling of RPL applications within departments/ schools.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 
 
 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
 
Senate The University’s governing academic body with overall 
responsibility for ensuring the integrity of the University’s 
awards.  
Board of Study To ensure all decisions regarding admission of applicants and/ 
or approving exemption from part of a course by credit transfer 
and/or RPL are undertaken in adherence with the relevant 
University policies and regulations. 
Department/ School Responsible for ensuring all decisions taken in relation to RPL 
and/ or credit transfer are consistent with the University’s 
regulations and are reported to the Board of Study. 
Directorate of Student 
Experience 
Responsible for recording RPL for Entry and credit transfer at 
university level and notifying applicant if RPL awarded.  
Quality Enhancement 
and Assurance Team 
To provide advice on the regulatory aspects of RPL.  
 
APPEALS 
 
35. Neither RPL nor credit transfer can be used as an extenuating circumstance for 
underachievement in subsequent assessments. 
 
36. There can be no appeal against the finding of a d epartment/school in an RPL or credit 
transfer application. However, students/applicants are able to pursue a complaint through 
the University’s Complaints Handling Procedure if they believe their claim has not been 
processed in accordance with this Policy and related University policies.  
 
 
APPENDICES 
1. Appendix A
 sets out a series of helpful external resources that can be used when considering 
RPL/credit transfer. 
 
2. Appendix B contains the University’s RPL/Credit Transfer  claim form to be completed by 
students and applicants seeking to claim RPL and/or Credit Transfer.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10 
 
APPENDIX A – Useful Resources 
 
1. QAA Scotland RPL resources, including RPL National Framework in Scotland 
https://www.qaa.ac.uk/scotland/development-projects/recognition-of-prior-learning 
 
2. SCQF Guide to RPL 
https://scqf.org.uk/guide-to-rpl/
 
 
3. SCQF Handbook (section 4 considers RPL) 
https://scqf.org.uk/media/1125/scqf_handbook_web_final_2015.pdf
 
 
4. Scottish National Qualifications: Old vs New 
https://scqf.org.uk/media/1104/old-v-new.pdf
 
 
5. Qualifications can cross boundaries: Guide to comparing qualifications in the UK and 
Ireland 
https://www.qaa.ac.uk/docs/qaas/news-and-events/qualifications-can-cross-boundaries-guide-
to-comparing-qualifications-in-the-uk-and-ireland.pdf?sfvrsn=3715c981_4

--- PAGE 11 ---

11 
 
  
APPENDIX B - Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL)/ Credit Transfer Application Form 
 
This form should be completed by University of Strathclyde students or applicants who 
intend to make a claim for RPL and approved by the relevant Academic Selector. 
Completed forms must be typed and submitted via email to: 
• Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences: HaSS-pg-enquiries@strath.ac.uk 
• Faculty of Engineering: eng-enquiries@strath.ac.uk 
• Faculty of Science: science-enquiries@strath.ac.uk 
• Strathclyde Business School: sbs-advisor@strath.ac.uk 
Further information on the use of RPL/ credit transfer at the University of Strathclyde can 
be found in the Policy on Credit Transfer and RPL
. 
 
Name:  
Student or 
applicant number 
(if known): 
 
Email address:  
Intended 
programme 
 
Level of entry  
Expected start 
date: 
 
 
 
Module code(s) and title(s) you would like to claim RPL and/ credit transfer towards: 
Please consult the University of Strathclyde programme catalogue and/or contact the 
appropriate Programme Leader for assistance 
Module code(s) Module title(s)

--- PAGE 12 ---

12 
 
Formal qualifications fully or partly completed (if any): 
Qualification title SCQF 
Level 
Subject Area Place of study Date 
achieved 
     
     
     
     
     
 
 
 
 
2 
Details of any relevant learning gained through life and/or work experiences (if any): 
This is experiential (either informal or non- formal) learning. If you choose to submit a claim 
involving this type of evidence, the member of University staff assigned to assess your claim 
will be in touch to discuss the information and supporting evidence that may be required to 
process your claim. . 
Please summarise the evidence you are submitting to submit to support your claim 
(e.g. copies of qualifications, module descriptors, transcripts and/or CV, references):

--- PAGE 13 ---

13 
 
 
 
Student signature  
Dated  
 
Personal information which you supply to the University of Strathclyde will be used to make a 
decision on your application. The University of Strathclyde is the data controller for your 
information. Further information on how your information is used and your rights is available 
on online. 
To be completed by department: 
 
 
Total number of credits to be added: 
Credit Level: Choose an item. 
 
Previous Academic Qualification: ☐ 
Previous Academic Qualification (Level and Subject): 
Additional Notes: 
 
 
Please record the number of credits that should be added to the student’s record. This 
information should include the reason for the RPL (previous academic qualification/previous 
academic study – no qualification/previous experience) and the credit level. 
You should also indicate if any modules should be removed from the student’s record or 
recorded as an exemption. 
Previous Academic Study (No Qualification): ☐ 
 f d  d  
 3

--- PAGE 14 ---

Previous Academic Study (No Qualification): ☐ 
Description of Academic Study: 
 
Previous Experience: ☐ 
Description of Previous Experience: 
 
 
Approved by:  
Signature:  
Date: Click or tap to enter a date.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15