--- PAGE 1 ---

1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY AND 
PROCEDURE ON 
PROGRAMME AND 
MODULE APPROVAL 
 
 
 
Version 
No. 
Description Author Approval Effective 
Date 
1.1 University Procedure 
and Guidelines on 
Course and Class 
Approval 
Governance, 
Management 
and Policy 
Senate December 2003 Dec 2003 
1.2 University Procedure 
and Guidelines on 
Course and Class 
Approval 
Governance, 
Management 
and Policy 
Minor revision Oct 2009 
1.3 Policy and Procedure on 
Programme and Module 
Approval 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate September 2019 Sept 
2019 
1.4 Policy and Procedure on 
Programme and Module 
Approval 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate: Convenor’s Action 
March 2023 
 
Remove Ref to ARRG, 
changes to Section 2.2 and 
paragraphs 2.3.4, 2.5.7. 
2.7.4, 3.1.2, 4.1, 4.2.3, 4.2.4, 
the Timetable Guide Page 4 
to reference QAC approving 
programme regulations and 
updating hyperlinks. 
March 
2023 
 
 Version 1.4  
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 
03/2023

--- PAGE 2 ---

2  
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1 These Procedures and Guidelines for Programme and Module Approval provide staff with a  
guide to setting up new programmes and modules and the process for approving new and 
amendments to existing programmes  and modules. This document has been written in 
alignment with the UK Quality Code for Higher Education (Course Design and Development) 
which states that: 
 
‘providers are responsible and accountable for the information they produce and for ensuring 
definitive course documentation remains current, transparent, focused on the intended 
audiences and complies with any external or legal requirements’. 
 
1.2 Key influences 
 
Since these guidelines were last updated a number of changes have taken place both within and 
outwith the University that affect the implementation of this guidance, namely: 
- The number of students applying to the University with protected characteristics is 
expected to increase and therefore the needs of a range of students who are likely to 
engage with the programme  or module must be considered in the process of design and 
approval; 
- The development of a revised set of Assessment and Feedback Principles which 
encourage the effectiveness of assessment in aiding students to achieve the necessary 
knowledge and skills described in a module or programme’s intended learning outcomes; 
- TESTA (Transforming the Experience of Students Through Assessment) is now integrated 
within the University’s Internal Review process (relating to reviews scheduled from  2019-
20); 
- The development of Unistats (previously KIS - Key Information Sets) which allows students 
to compare official programme data from all Higher Education Institutions and Colleges in 
the UK. This requires the University to publish up to date and accurate information 
associated with all Undergraduate programmes; 
- The introduction of the  Consumer Protection Law  and associated guidance from the 
Competition and Markets Authority which means that students must be given as much 
information about programme content and structure, fees and academic regulations as 
early as possible to allow them to  make an informed choice about which university they  
want to apply to; 
- The number of online programmes and modules have increased across the University as 
the institution diversifies its offerings for students; 
- The development of the out of cycle programme approval system, designed to enable the 
approval of programmes outwith the Senate meeting cycle where necessary; 
- The focus on providing online programmes and modules has intensified with the need for 
ensuring quality standards in production and delivery are adhered to.

--- PAGE 3 ---

3  
2. PROGRAMME AND MODULE APPROVAL POLICY 
 
2.1 Board of Study Recommendation and Senate Approval 
 
2.1.1 New programmes and major changes to existing programmes must be recommended by the 
relevant Faculty Academic Committee with delegated authority from the Board of Study and 
approved by Senate following  the regulations being scrutinised and approved by the Quality 
Assurance Committee (QAC) . The Faculty Academic Committee recommendation must follow 
scrutiny by the appropriate Department/ School and Faculty committees in accordance with 
University policy and procedure set down in this document. 
 
2.1.2 A significant change to a programme would normally be: a change to the programme title, 
significant restructuring of the programme, change to the content of the programme or changes 
to the accreditation status. 
 
2.2 Regulations 
 
2.2.1 Regulations for a new programme must be submitted to the relevant Faculty Academic 
Committee as part of the programme proposal following the guidelines produced by the Quality 
Enhancement and Assurance Team (QEAT). These guidelines are available on the  
QEAT 
SharePoint site  and  have been designed  to maximise efficient scrutiny in partnership between 
Schools/ Departments/ Faculties and the QEAT . The guidelines and accompanying regulations 
template are there to ensure that regulations are developed correctly and consistently and to 
avoid them being rejected when submitted to QAC  for scrutiny  and approval. Every effort 
should be made to ensure that regulations are submitted with the correct module codes. Please 
Note: QAC scrutiny and approval of regulations is required prior  to publication in the 
final version of the University programme regulations and registration of students. 
 
2.2.2 Changes to existing programme regulations including the addition of new modules must, after 
scrutiny by the relevant faculty committees as necessary be submitted by the Faculty 
representative to the appropriate SharePoint folder with the existing regulations clearly marked 
up with the required changes in accordance with the QEAT guidelines. 
 
 
2.2.3 Regulations must be uploaded to the relevant Faculty SharePoint folder . QAC will offer three 
decisions: ‘approved’, ‘approved subject to change’ and ‘not approved’. If ‘approved subject to 
change’ or ‘not approved’, QAC will provide an explanation for the decision via email . It is up 
to the relevant individual from the Faculty/ Department/ School to address these comments and 
re-upload to Sharepoint the amended version of the regulations for approval.

--- PAGE 4 ---

4  
2.3 Timing 
 
2.3.1 Regulations must be published annually in time for online registration on 1 st August. The 
deadline for all submission of regulations is the end of the second week in June to allow for any 
amendments to existing regulations and for Faculties to  review what is being published in 
advance of 1st August deadline. Any significant changes such as changes to compulsory 
modules after this date will not be accepted for publication. 
 
2.3.2 Student Business send curriculum rules to Faculties in January to enable the availability of the 
provisional curriculum in the Spring. It is important that what is inserted into the curriculum 
rules for existing programmes/ modules aligns with the regulations to be published the 
following August. 
 
2.3.3 New programmes and major changes to existing programmes for the following session require 
to be brought to Senate no later than November. 
 
2.3.4 New modules and minor changes to existing programmes for the following session require to be 
brought to QEAT no later than January. 
 
2.3.5 In order to make the most of the University’s marketing and recruitment effort and to ensure 
robust quality assurance and alignment with Competition and Market Authority guidelines, the 
following timeline is provided as a guide for introducing new programs: 
 
Timetable Guide (for implementation of new programmes in September) 
 
Year prior to implementation of new programme: 
Development of business case March – August 
Final paperwork submitted to Boards of Study/ 
Faculty Academic Committees (FACs) 
September 
Programme regulations to be approved by QAC November 
Paperwork submitted to Senate for final 
approval 
November 
Year of implementation of new programme: 
Undergraduate deadline for completion of 
promotional material* 
February 
Postgraduate deadline for completion of 
promotional material* 
April 
Regulations published August 
New programme introduced September 
*Promotional material for open days and overseas exhibitions.

--- PAGE 5 ---

5  
2.3.6 For the key dates, please see the University’s Calendar of Dates . 
 
2.4 Definition of major changes and minor amendments 
 
2.4.1 A major change is defined as a change to the structure of the programme for example, the 
number of credits and credit levels. A minor amendment is defined as a like for like substitution 
for example a new module replacing an existing module. 
 
2.5 Faculty Framework for New Programme Approval 
 
The Faculty process for developing a new programme proposal follows the stages outlined below: 
 
2.5.1 Academic case 
Before drafting a complete proposal, Department/ School and/ or Faculty (if required) approval 
must be sought. This involves the submission of a summary case, a brief statement justifying 
the academic need for the new programme, its market, and an overview of its proposed 
structure and syllabus. 
 
2.5.2 Business case 
A detailed business case including risk assessment should be prepared once the programme 
concept has been approved by the relevant Department/ School. 
 
Time should be built into this process to allow for any amendments, additional information, etc. 
that may be required before the proposal can progress to the next stage of the process. The 
Faculty Office will provide advice as necessary. 
 
2.5.3 Programme Costing 
Programme costing forms part of the business case, comprising the financial analysis element 
which considers the resources required to deliver the programme. The information from this 
exercise will be used to inform the decision- making process of whether a new programme 
should be created. It is imperative that the data being used to inform the programme costing 
exercise is relevant, accessible and up to date and that any assumptions made are clearly 
articulated. Data for academic and support staff time, timetabled hours, relevant direct and RAM 
costs require to be available, for example, and funding source(s). 
 
The common principles which faculties must adhere to when costing a programme are set out 
in Annex 1. Faculties will have their own templates. 
 
2.5.4 Risk Analysis 
Risk is a key consideration for programme design and development. Risk -based approaches 
can determine  the timelines and nature of programme approval. However, risk can also be 
considered in the context of a proposal’s feasibility (for instance, based on operational, resource 
or recruitment considerations) or the impact on a provider’s existing provision. Risk should be 
considered in relation to potential partners involved in the proposal, for example, with respect to 
delivery or accreditation, appropriate due diligence should be undertaken to ensure the 
suitability of these relationships (UK Quality Code for Higher Education
). 
 
The University takes a risk -based approach to programme and module approval. Please see 
section 2.12 in Procedures for Implementing a New Programme for risk assessment and 
management associated with developing a new programme. Annex 2 provides a risk 
assessment template that all Faculties are encouraged to use.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6  
2.5.5 Faculty Approval Stage 
This involves all aspects of the business case being reviewed by independent members of the 
Faculty, usually comprising the Faculty Manager (or nominee) and at least one member of the 
Faculty Academic Committee. The academic content of the programme and how it will be 
delivered will be reviewed by an academic committee. 
 
It is important that a full set of documentation be submitted for scrutiny and that the 
approval process is formally recorded. The UK Quality Code for Higher Education ‘Course
 
Design and Development’ states ‘ Approval processes should ensure that definitive course 
documentation is produced accurately and fairly describing the learning opportunities, intended 
student outcomes and support offered. Providers are responsible and accountable for the 
information they produce and for ensuring definitive course documentation remains current, 
transparent, focused on the intended audiences and complies with any  external or legal 
requirements’. 
 
2.5.6 Student Lifecycle 
Prior to new programme proposal submissions being forwarded to Senate and QAC, Student 
Lifecycle must allocate a module code for each module in the programme. Application forms for 
allocation of module codes are available on the Student Lifecycle web site. 
 
2.5.7 Senate and QAC 
Once the Faculty Academic Committee has approved a new programme proposal, the 
recommendation accompanied by summary information  and programme regulations are 
submitted to Senate for approval in the Faculty’s report to Senate.  QAC separately reviews the 
programme regulations and reports its recommendations back to the Faculty. QAC will offer one 
of three decisions as per para 2.2.3.  If a programme has to be withdrawn from the regulations, 
Faculties must inform Senate before QAC can remove the programme(s) from the regulations. 
 
In order for the regulations to appear in the next published version of the Programme Regulations 
it is essential that the programme proposal is submitted in time for the Faculty Academic 
Committee to make its recommendation to the November Senate at the latest for 
implementation in the following academic year . Please note: QAC scrutiny and approval of 
the regulations are required prior to insertion in the Programme Regulations and prior to Senate 
approval of the programme. The diagram in Annex 3 illustrates the various stages that a new 
programme proposal must go through before final approval for the programme can be granted. 
 
Where a new programme is being developed as part of a collaborative agreement, the agreement 
will not be endorsed until the regulations have been scrutinised and approved by QAC and the  
programme has been approved at Senate. 
 
Guidance on how to submit regulations to QAC is provided on the QEAT  Sharepoint site. Further 
advice and information can be obtained by contacting regulations-amendments@strath.ac.uk. 
 
2.5.8 Out of cycle new programme approval process 
To reduce delays in getting new programmes to market, an electronic subgroup allows the 
Principal to approve new programmes on behalf of Senate, outwith the Senate meeting cycle. 
 
Faculties must submit the appropriate quality assurance documents for scrutiny to the Senate 
Manager. Faculties should contact educationenhancement-quality@strath.ac.uk for an electronic 
copy of the Out of Cycle Approval Form. The completed form must be accompanied by the

--- PAGE 7 ---

7  
business case, draft programme regulations and confirmation of fee approval. It must then be 
submitted back to educationenhancement-quality@strath.ac.uk. The documentation will be 
circulated electronically to the Subgroup. Once any comments have been addressed, approval 
will be sought from Senate Business Committee members on behalf of Senate. This process can 
take approx. 10 days. Faculties must include the approved new programme for homologation in 
their next Faculty report to Senate ‘for information’. 
 
2.5.9 Fees Strategy Group 
Fees are conditional on the marketplace, competition and demand for the activity being offered. 
Tuition fees for new programmes must be approved approximately 18 months in advance of a 
programme going ‘live’ to allow for sufficient time to market the programme effectively. It is 
important that the fee is both consistent with the University’s strategy and competitive in the 
marketplace. The fee together with any ‘hidden’ costs associated with the programme must be 
published on the programme web pages. 
 
The Fees Strategy Group has responsibility for approving all fees on an annual basis. The Group 
reviews the University fee spine annually, taking into account inflationary increases and changes 
to the market in specific areas. The Group considers fees at UG, PGT and PGR level for each 
student market (Home, EU, RUK and International). 
 
All new programmes must have their fees approved by the Fees Strategy Group. 
 
2.5.10 Student Lifecycle 
The final stage in a new programme going ‘live’ is the allocation of a programme code. A 
programme code will not be allocated without all the required approvals as outlined above having 
taken place. A Programme Code Approval Form  must be completed before a code can be 
applied. This form, along with guidelines for completion,  can be found on the Student Lifecycle 
website. 
 
2.5.11 MRes and other Masters programmes containing an element of taught modules 
MRes or other Masters programmes which contain an element of taught modules as well as 
research are required to follow this approval process. The following criteria categorise programmes 
as taught, and such programmes should therefore be considered as above: 
- programmes with any award, including an exit award (e.g. PG Certificate), comprised of taught 
credits; and/or 
- programmes including taught credit for modules which would be delivered to cohorts of students, 
rather than through individual research supervision. 
 
The inclusion of a small element of research skills training would not, by itself, categorise a 
programme as taught. 
 
Any changes to the PGT Cert in Researcher Professional Development must be endorsed 
through the HaSS Faculty Academic Committee. Amendments to Faculty equivalents should be 
processed through the relevant Faculty’s Academic Committee (acting with delegated authority 
from the Board of Study). 
 
2.6 Responsibilities 
2.6.1 Departments/Schools 
Responsible for: 
- Developing the academic case. The academic case is a short summary of why the programme

--- PAGE 8 ---

8  
should be introduced as well as how the programme will be delivered. It also requires some outline 
detail on what the anticipated market will be for such a degree as well as the USPs of the programme 
as a whole. 
- Developing the business case once the academic case has been approved. 
- Submission of full programme documentation to Faculty Academic Committee and other Faculty 
committees as appropriate for consideration before being recommended for approval to Senate via 
the Academic Committee. Programme documentation must include the following documents: 
academic case (incorporating the programme regulations, programme specification and module 
descriptor form); business case; and, notification of proposed tuition fees. 
2.6.2 Faculty Office 
 
Responsible for: 
- Asking Senate for approval of new programme in the Faculty report to Senate. If the programme 
has been approved outwith the Senate meeting cycle using the out of cycle process, then it must 
be reported ‘for information’ in the next Faculty report to Senate. 
- Overseeing submission of regulations (using the regulations template, available on the QEAT 
Sharepoint site) with module codes once the all the necessary Faculty approvals have been given. 
- Submission of information to Fees Strategy Group – please contact Strategy and P lanning 
strategyandplannning@strath.ac.uk
. 
- Overseeing submission of Programme Code Approval Form  to Student Lifecycle Systems and 
Data Team. 
- Overseeing submission of programme information to the Web team. 
 
2.6.3 Marketing 
 
Responsible for: 
- Departments/ Schools should work with the Marketing and Communications team to ensure the 
marketing and promotion of the new programme once approved. Marketing will ensure the new 
programme is published in the Prospectus, on institutional websites and via other promotional 
mechanisms as appropriate, adhering to the legal requirements around the provision of information. 
2.6.4 Recruitment and International Office 
Responsible for: 
- Carrying out a competitor analysis to check the fee level and likelihood of student intake and 
consult overseas agents to seek their view on the proposal. 
- Promoting the new programme to an international market. 
 
 
2.6.5 Student Lifecycle 
 
Responsible for: 
- Allocating module codes. 
- Allocating programme codes.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9  
2.7 Key Committees/ Working Groups involved in Programme and Module Approval 
 
2.7.1 Faculty Academic Committee (acting with delegated authority from the Board of Study) 
 
Responsible for: 
- Scrutinising the documentation associated with the new programme proposal on behalf of the 
Board of Study. 
- Recommending approval of the new programme to Senate requesting further information from the 
Department/ School. 
 
2.7.2 Faculty Resources and Planning Committee (or equivalent) 
 
Responsible for: 
- Scrutinising the financial costing and resource implications of implementing the new programme. 
 
2.7.3 Senate 
 
Responsible for: 
- Approving the new programme. 
- It is the responsibility of the Senate Manager to confirm Senate outcomes to Faculties, copying the 
Web Team (who can now promote the programme on the Strathclyde web pages) and the Student 
Lifecycle Systems and Data Team. 
 
2.7.4 QAC 
 
Responsible for: 
- Scrutinising the regulations associated with the new programme/ module in accordance with 
QEAT guidelines. 
- Approving/ approving subject to change/ not approving the regulations. 
- Publishing the regulations in time for online registration on 1st August on the website and on the 
QEAT Sharepoint site.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10  
3. PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING A NEW PROGRAMME 
 
3.1 Preparing a Business Case: Format 
 
The University expects the business case to be comprised of the following: 
- The academic case incorporating programme specification, draft programme regulations 
and module descriptor form. 
- Supplementary information particularly regarding rationale, resource requirements/ 
availability and detailed programme content (details can be found in section 2 ‘ Preparing a 
Business Case: Information Required’). 
 
3.1.1 Programme Specifications 
Programme Specifications are required for all university programmes. Programme Specifications 
should summarise the main features of the programme in terms of: 
 
- overall aims 
- intended learning outcomes including personal/transferable/key skills 
- programme structure 
- teaching and learning activities 
- assessment and feedback strategy (refer to Assessment and Feedback Policy) 
- Level and Credit weighting and subject benchmarking information 
- student admission, progression and learning support 
- arrangements for programme evaluation and review. 
 
The QAA Quality Code for Higher Education states that Programme Specifications ‘constitute the 
approved definition of a course and module, which should contain sufficient information for 
stakeholders about intended aims and learning outcomes and about the approach to teaching, 
learning and assessment. Related documentation, such as prospectuses, institutional websites 
and other marketing information should be derived and updated  with respect to this definitive 
documentation and adhere to the legal requirements around provision of information’. 
 
3.1.2 Draft Programme Regulations 
Draft Programme Regulations must be submitted using the appropriate template for an 
Undergraduate Programme, an Integrated Masters Programme or a Postgraduate Programme 
available on the QEAT SharePoint site. . Draft programme regulations for new programmes must 
be available to QAC for scrutiny and approval no later than the November  meeting of Senate. 
Please note that late submissions will not be permissible, unless under exceptional 
circumstances. Examples of reasonable exceptional circumstances would be: 
- Curriculum changes required to satisfy accreditation requirements; 
- Curriculum changes following from Internal-Led (quinquennial) Review; 
- Curriculum changes following feedback from External Examiners; 
- Curriculum changes following student feedback; 
- A member of staff leaves and there is no longer the expertise to deliver the module, in which 
case the regulations may need to be adapted; 
- A new member of staff is appointed; 
- Internationalisation agenda 
 
3.1.3 Module Descriptor Form 
The Module Descriptor Form must be submitted using the appropriate template. Module Descriptors 
should summarise the main features of the module in terms of: 
- Educational aim

--- PAGE 11 ---

11  
- Learning outcomes 
- Syllabus 
- Assessment of learning outcomes and feedback to students on assessment 
- Recommended reading 
 
3.2 Preparing a Business Case: Information Required 
 
3.2.1 Basic programme information 
 
- Information must be provided on the name of the faculty introducing the new programme, 
programme title, year of introduction and the educational reason for introducing the 
programme. 
 
- The programme outline should also be provided, summarising the content and curriculum of 
the programme as a whole including how much content is already in place, how much is new 
and how new content will fit in with existing content. 
 
- A Statement of Support must be provided indicating support for the proposal to proceed to 
approval. An indication of other Departments’/ Schools’ involvement should be provided 
here. 
 
- The place of the new programme within Faculty and University strategic plans must be 
provided. 
 
- Information on the overall structure of the programme will be required; plus a statement on 
how existing material will be integrated with new material. For each module there must be a 
statement of the content, preferably in the form of a module descriptor form or separate 
module proposal including intended learning outcomes and details of assessment. 
 
3.2.2 Rationale for Programme 
 
Evidence of the need for the new programme, as perceived by the academic community, 
employers, government, industry and/or the relevant profession is required. Evidence of 
potential demand for the new programme, from e.g. prospective students, current students, 
potential sponsors, careers advisers, etc. is also required. 
 
i. Aims and Learning Outcomes 
Information must be provided on the aims, and intended learning outcomes of the programme 
including the personal/transferable/key skills that the students should develop. 
 
ii. Modes of Delivery 
A statement must be provided on modes of delivery and learning and teaching methods, both 
for the whole programme and for individual modules. A statement of staff/student learning/ 
contact hours for the programme and for each module must also be given. For Distance 
Learning, online learning, Graduate Apprenticeships and other independent study programmes 
or modules, the mechanisms for providing student support must be explained. 
 
iii. Draft Degree Regulations 
A copy of the draft degree regulations must be attached when developing this business case. The 
guidance from QEAT should be adhered to when developing these regulations.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12  
iv. Programme Specification 
Departments/ Schools must attach the Programme Specification to the Business Case, using the 
template provided here. Departments/ Schools should aim to review programmes in alignment 
with the annual programme review timeline. 
 
3.2.3 Graduate Employability 
- Evidence of the potential employment opportunities that graduates from the proposed 
degree may anticipate should be provided in this section. 
 
- Details of any employer consultation(s) that have been carried out should be given including 
any details of potential employer sponsorship. 
 
3.2.4 Market Appeal 
i. Market 
Evidence of market appeal should be provided, describing the market the proposed new 
programme is designed to appeal to. Evidence of why the proposed new programme will 
attract sufficient applicants should also be provided in this section. 
 
ii. Overseas Recruitment 
Information should be provided on the overseas agents consulted to recruit students to the 
proposed new programme. A summary of feedback elicited from these contacts should be 
provided. 
 
iii. Feedback from Student Bodies 
Details on feedback from current and prospective students, together with key information 
elicited from discussions with alumni should be provided here. 
 
iv. Similar programmes 
Evidence of similar programmes provided by other higher education providers within the UK 
and overseas should be provided here. 
 
v. Programme Comparisons 
- This section should provide information on the proposed new programme and competitor 
programmes in the areas of: entry requirements; structure and delivery; adherence to 
widening participation; and, how the proposed new programme will differentiate itself from 
similar competitor programmes. 
 
- A statement must be provided which specifies if the programme is in direct competition with 
other programmes offered by the University/other institutions/the profession or vocational 
programmes offer elsewhere. 
 
3.2.5 Professional Accreditation 
Information should be provided on the professional bodies that the programme will be submitted 
to for accreditation. 
 
3.2.6 Financial Analysis 
 
i. Departmental/ School Financial Forecast 
A financial forecast should be uploaded here to support the business case.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13  
ii. Programme Fees 
This section should detail fees forecast for the next 5 years. It should be noted that fees  for all 
new programmes must be approved by the Fees Strategy Group and the Chief Financial Officer 
before the fee can be introduced. 
 
iii. Estimated student numbers 
A forecast of student intake numbers for the proposed new degree programme should be 
provided here, including SFC places if applicable. 
 
iv. Forecast income and expenditure 
A summary income and expenditure for each year of the proposed new degree should be 
provided here. 
 
3.2.7 Resourcing 
 
i. Staffing provision 
A statement on the staff resources required for the programme must be provided. This should 
specify all the staff required for this programme i.e. academic staff; administrative staff; teaching 
assistants; other support staff. An indication of which bodies will contribute to teaching load should 
be provided here – sponsoring Department, other Departments/ Schools within the Faculty, 
other Departments/ Schools outwith the Faculty and providers outwith the University. 
 
ii. Faculty Integration 
This section should indicate if the proposed new modules can be used on other programmes 
within the faculty. 
 
iii. Timetabling 
A statement on the timetabling requirements of the programme must be provided. This should 
specify all UG and PG teaching activities that will require a centrally timetabled exam room. 
Departments/ Schools should inform the Central Timetabling team of requirements as early as 
possible. 
 
iv. Learning and Teaching Infrastructure 
- A statement on the accommodation requirements of the proposed new programme should 
be provided. It should specify whether the accommodation required is central pool or 
departmentally controlled, and information on the availability/ accessibility of this 
accommodation should be provided. Where appropriate, the requirements for laboratory 
space should be stated and how this will be met. 
 
- A statement should also be provided on technology requirements to teach the proposed new 
degree with confirmation of how these will be addressed with the relevant Professional 
Services support and any specific requirements should be stated. Availability and 
accessibility should be indicated here. The Faculty Digital Learning Leads and Education 
Enhancement can provide further advice in this area. These areas should be consulted as 
early as possible in the process.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14  
- Graduate Apprenticeship and Degree Apprenticeship programmes should seek 
endorsement of the programme proposal and delivery approach through the Graduate 
Apprenticeship and Degree Apprenticeship Steering Group. 
 
- New online programmes should follow the online module quality assurance criteria as 
recommended by Strathclyde Online Learning (SOL). Business cases for new online 
programmes should be presented to SOL to ensure they have been costed appropriately. 
 
v. Teaching Load 
Teaching load estimates of all module sizes detailed in the draft regulations for the proposed 
degree should be provided here. This should include students from all degrees that share any 
of the modules. 
 
vi. Further information 
This section provides the opportunity to provide any supporting information for example 
identifying members of staff who will be responsible for delivering each module within the 
programme; and, where appropriate, who will be the programme organiser for each year. 
 
3.2.8 Marketing Communications 
 
i. Marketing and Promotion 
An outline marketing plan should be provided in this section, in keeping with section 3 above. A 
prospectus entry date should be provided together with a date for submission to Marketing and 
Development Services for publication on the website and in the prospectus. 
 
Whether the proposed new programme will be marketed by the Department/ School and/ or the 
faculty should be indicated here. 
 
ii. Flexibility/Coherence 
Learning pathways need to be identified for the programme as a whole - eg how much of this 
programme is prescribed and how much student choice is incorporated? 
 
iii. Academic Standards 
The overall level of the programme must be specified and reflected in the title of the final award 
and any awards available from earlier exit points. These awards must be compatible with the 
University Awards Framework at Annex 4. Each module must be assigned a level and credit 
rating compatible with the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework. If a new programme is 
developed as a result of a collaborative agreement, please refer to the Policy and Code of  
Practice on Collaborative Education Provision. 
 
Reference should be made to any relevant external benchmarks such as: 
- QAA subject benchmarking statements 
- External Examiners 
- Professional or Statutory Body requirements 
 
iv. Student Assessment 
Clear information on how the students will be assessed at each stage of the programme and for 
each module is required; these must be aligned to the learning outcomes. In addition, 
information on which elements count towards the final assessment and the weightings applied 
to these different elements is required. Reference should be made to the suite of Assessment  
and Feedback Policy and Procedures.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15  
v. Programme Evaluation 
Information on the methods to be used to evaluate modules, pathways, principal subjects and 
the programme as a whole is required and information on the frequency of evaluation. 
Confirmation that Faculty arrangements for programme monitoring/review will apply. 
 
vi. Programme Materials 
Information is required in relation to the cost of programme materials such as lab equipment, 
textbooks, field trips etc. as detailed in the fees tab of each degree programme on the website. 
 
3.2.9 Students 
 
i.    Admissions Policy 
Information on for example entry qualifications, non -standard entry, Recognition of Prior 
Learning/ Credit Transfer, Tier 4 implications must be provided. Also any information on  target 
student cohorts (where applicable) should be provided. Please refer to the University’s 
Admissions Policy and the Procedure for Admitting and Monitoring Students within Tier 4. 
 
3.2.10 External Influences 
 
i. Peer Judgement 
Comments/views from members of academic staff in other institutions may be provided. 
 
ii. External Examiners/Assessors 
Views of current and previous (if applicable) External Examiners and/or Assessors associated 
with the Department/subject area should be provided. 
 
iii. Professional Views 
Views from the professional body (where appropriate) should be provided. 
 
iv. Other External Influences 
Views from employers, careers advisers, etc. should also be provided where appropriate. 
 
3.2.11 Resource 
 
i. Staff 
A statement on staff resources required must be provided here. 
 
ii. Library 
A statement on the availability of prescribed texts, books, journals, etc. must be provided. 
Academics must discuss the information requirements with the relevant faculty Librarian. The 
Library should also be informed of expected student numbers on the programme. 
 
iii. Computing 
A statement on the availability or accessibility of computing equipment and relevant support 
must be provided (where appropriate). 
 
iv. Audio Visual 
A statement on the availability or accessibility of relevant Audio Visual equipment and/or facilities 
must be provided (where appropriate). 
 
v. Equipment 
Any other equipment needs must be specified, together with a statement on the 
availability/accessibility of this equipment.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16  
vi. Student Placements/Fieldwork 
Where appropriate a statement on the requirements for student placements or compulsory 
fieldwork should be included in the programme proposal, together with a statement on how the 
associated costs will be met. 
 
3.2.12 Risk Assessment and Management 
A statement on risk addressing the following questions should be included: 
- What are the key academic and business risks associated with introducing this new 
programme? 
- What key factors, controls etc. will help to reduce the University’s exposure to those risks? 
- What management information, indicators and early warning flags will you use to help 
identify changes in the perceived level of risk?

--- PAGE 17 ---

17  
4. PROCEDURES FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING A NEW MODULE 
 
4.1 Preparing a New Module Proposal: Information Required 
 
New modules and revisions to existing modules can only be introduced following approval by QAC on 
behalf of Senate. The information required for a new module proposal is similar to but less extensive than 
that required for a new programme proposal. 
 
4.1.1 Core Information 
 
i. Core Information 
Information such as the module title, credit value, SCQF level, duration and mode of attendance 
should be provided in this section. 
 
ii. Departments/ Schools involved in delivering this module 
This section should indicate what percentage of the module is being taught by other 
Department(s)/ School(s) within the University. 
 
4.1.2 Curriculum Cohesion 
 
i. Programme Cohesion 
Evidence of which degree programme(s) this module will form part of. This section should also 
provide details of the following: 
- Module(s) replaced by this new module 
- Pre-requisite modules 
- Co-requisite modules 
- Overlap modules 
 
4.1.3 Educational case 
 
i. Rationale for the new module 
- Evidence of the need, as perceived by the academic community, employers, government, 
industry or the relevant profession. 
- Evidence of potential demand, from e.g. prospective students, current students, potential 
sponsors, careers advisers, etc. 
- Evidence of how the new module is distinctive and whether it overlaps or competes with any 
other module offered in the University or elsewhere. 
 
ii. Educational aim 
Provide a broad and general statement of the educational intent and overall purpose of the 
proposed module. 
 
4.1.4 Format, Delivery and Assessment 
 
i. Activity and Delivery 
Evidence of the type and nature of activities and/ or teaching delivery methods. The number of 
contact hours for each module should also be given here.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18  
ii. Learning objectives 
The learning objectives of each module should be listed here. Guidance suggests that it is good 
pedagogical practice for a module to have between four and six learning objectives. 
 
iii. Learning outcomes/ transferable skills 
Information on the intended learning outcomes for the module including personal/ transferable/ 
key skills that the students should develop. 
 
iv. Assessment (please refer to Assessment and Feedback Policy) 
Clear information on how the students will be assessed at each stage is required. Information 
on which elements count towards the final assessment and the weightings applied to these 
different elements must be provided. How the assessment aligns with the learning objectives 
and outcomes must also be included as well as how feedback will be provided to students. 
 
v. Resit assessment procedures 
Information on the intended resit assessment(s) should the student fail should be provided here. 
Further information can be found in the general regulations. 
 
vi. Principles of assessment and feedback 
Evidence of how the module adheres to the University’s Assessment and Feedback principles 
(as outlined in the above policy) should be incorporated here and a statement around how 
feedback is expected to be delivered to the students. 
 
4.1.5 Syllabus and resources 
 
i. Syllabus 
The intended syllabus for the proposed new module should be summarised here. 
 
ii. Recommended reading 
Information for the module on required texts together with confirmation of its availability through 
discussions with the Library/ Faculty Librarian. 
 
iii. Resources 
Information on resources that will be required for the module, such as software, equipment or 
accommodation requirements, which are not currently available. 
 
iv. Module feedback 
Information on the methods used to evaluate the module is required and on the frequency of 
evaluation. 
 
v. Further information 
Additional information that would be helpful to a module scrutiny team should be provided, such 
as supporting statements from other Departments/ Schools contributing to the module, detailed 
business case information, data, etc. 
 
vi. Academic Standards 
The module must be assigned a level and credit rating compatible with the Scottish Credit and 
Qualifications Framework. Notes on level and credits are included in Annex 4. Reference should 
be made to any relevant external benchmarks such as: 
- QAA subject benchmarking statements 
- Professional or Statutory Body requirements

--- PAGE 19 ---

19  
- External Examiners’ feedback 
 
4.1.6 External Influences 
 
i. Where appropriate, comments and views from members of academic staff in other institutions, 
the External Examiner, Professional Bodies, employers and careers advisers should be 
provided. 
 
4.1.7 Resources 
 
i. Staff 
There should also be a statement identifying members of staff who will be responsible for 
delivering the module. 
 
ii. Other 
There should be a statement confirming the availability of appropriate library, computing and 
audio-visual equipment and accommodation resources. 
 
iii. Student Placements/Fieldwork 
Where appropriate a statement on the requirements for student placements or compulsory 
fieldwork should be included in the new module proposal, together with a statement on how the 
associated costs will be met. 
 
4.1.8 Competition/Duplication 
 
i. Distinctiveness of Module 
A statement on the distinctiveness of the module must be provided. Does it overlap or compete 
with any other module offered in this institution? Elsewhere? 
 
4.2 New Module Approval Process and Timetable 
 
4.2.1 Faculty 
 
Before being submitted to the Faculty Academic Committee it is normal practice for 
Departments/ Schools to scrutinise new module proposals particularly with regard to academic 
matters and resourcing matters. Once approval has been reached the proposal is submitted to 
the Faculty Academic Committee. The Faculty Office can advise on which Committees require 
to scrutinise module approvals and the timetable involved. 
 
4.2.2 Module Codes 
 
Prior to submissions being forwarded to QEAT, a code must be allocated for each new module by 
the Student Lifecycle – Systems and Data team. Requests should be submitted via the ‘Module 
Requests’ facility in Pegasus.  
 
4.2.3 QAC 
 
- QAC will scrutinise and approve changes to programme regulations needed to 
accommodate new modules. Changes to existing programme regulations including the 
addition of new modules must be uploaded to the QEAT Sharepoint site in accordance with 
the guidance. Please note: QAC scrutiny and approval of regulations on behalf of Senate is 
required prior to changes in the Programme Regulations.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20  
- Once the Faculty Academic Committee has approved a new module it passes the 
regulations for the programme to the QEAT to arrange for scrutiny and approval on behalf 
of Senate. In order for the regulations to appear in the next edition of the Programme 
Regulations it is essential  that a new module proposal is submitted, via the Faculty 
Committees. The Faculty Office will provide advice as necessary and will have details of the 
timetable involved. However, time should be built into this process  to allow for a ny 
amendments, additional information, etc.  that may be required before the proposal can 
progress to the next stage of the process. 
 
4.2.4 Module Catalogue 
 
- Information provided to Student Business on the application form for a module code 
allocation is used to provide much of the information about modules in the Module Catalogue. 
It is important that this information is provided promptly and accurately – entries in the Module 
Catalogue must match the module code in the programme regulations. Curriculum and 
learning outcome information for the Module Catalogue is input by the appropriate 
Department/School.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21  
Annex 1 
PROGRAMME COSTING GUIDANCE 
 
1 Faculty programme approval procedure 
 
1.1 Each Faculty takes steps to satisfy itself that a new programme will be academically sound and 
financially viable. Each Faculty has set out the procedure for programme approval, including the 
details of the decision- making bodies which approve aspects of the programme and the 
timescales for obtaining that approval. The procedures for the academic aspects of that are to be 
reviewed. 
 
1.2 Each Faculty will maintain records of: 
 
- The decision making body which determined that the programme should be developed and 
why. 
- The decision making bodies which approved the academic content and financial viability of 
the programme. 
- The final approval by the Board of Study. (It is noted that this may be included in a minute 
which is submitted to the Board by one or more Committees). 
 
2 Faculty programme costing model 
 
2.1 As part of the formal faculty approval process for new and existing programmes, the Faculty 
Programme Costing model includes: 
 
- Fit with University and Faculty strategy 
- Evidence of market demand and information on sector competition pricing rationale, 
including fees and scholarships/discounts projected student numbers 
- Total income calculated by predicted student numbers times fee less scholarships plus any 
SFC or other grant. 
- Estimated set up and launch costs* for year 0 
- Estimated delivery costs* for Years 1 to 3 (5 for an integrated master’s programme) [*Launch 
and delivery costs include but are not limited to: 
• Academic staff time 
• Support staff time 
• Direct non-pay costs such as consumables, work placements, PVG, 
Agents’ commission, etc 
• Indirect costs –marketing, recruitment, RAM 
• Estates costs 
• Percentage contingency of Direct costs (both salary and non-pay) 
to cover unforeseen costs] 
- Out turn: annual and cumulative Assessment of risk 
 
[A template for assessing risk is appended in Annex 2.].

--- PAGE 22 ---

22  
3 Faculty programme review 
 
3.1 Each Faculty takes steps to satisfy itself on a 5- year cycle that an existing programme remains 
academically sound and financially viable. The procedures for the academic aspects of that are to 
be reviewed and those for the financial aspects developed based on the Costing Guidance 
provided in this document.

--- PAGE 23 ---

ANNEX 2 Risk assessment and management: Worked example 
 
 MSc in Food Security 
# Risk Controls Assessment Likelihood Impact Rating Action 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
Effort is invested in 
programme development but 
the programme is not 
approved 
 
 
Each Faculty operates an 
“approval   of the  concept” 
stage of programme approval 
which minimises  effort 
invested  in a non-viable 
proposal and ensures that 
each  programme  is 
strategically aligned. 
Strong market demand in the 
food and drink industry well- 
documented nationally and 
internationally (e.g. a Scottish 
government priority area, focus 
of the Chinese government as 
part of the Made in China 2025 
plan and the World Class 2.0 
plan). 
University describes itself as 
“technological”: Food Security is 
certainly that; the programme is 
also aligned with the University's 
socially progressive aims 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
None 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
Programme is not financially 
viable 
 
 
Each Faculty operates robust 
procedures for programme 
approval involving 
independent reviewers. 
Dept X's financial analysis has 
been refined by Faculty Manager 
and reviewed by two members of 
FRAP. Some questions on 
expenditure to be addressed by 
Dept X. However, review of 
programme costing is not well 
embedded in the Faculty and 
training of reviewers is required. 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
Dept X to address 
reviewers’ 
questions 
 
 
3 
Promotional material does not 
meet CMA requirements (e.g. 
additional fees) and 
University is found to be in 
breach of legislation 
Each Faculty operates a 
rigorous programme approval 
process designed to capture 
all costs to the student 
 
Section on “Additional fees” not 
showing on University webpage 
for programme 
 
 
3 
 
 
3 
 
 
9 
FMs collating 
"Additional fees" 
information for all 
UG, PGT and PGR 
programmes

--- PAGE 24 ---

FMs to ensure that 
programme 
approval  process 
includes collection 
of information on 
additional fees 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
Programme does not recruit 
additional students (e.g. 
market already saturated; 
programme not sufficiently 
distinctive, so that it simply 
redistributes students across 
the University portfolio; fees 
too high; mode of delivery 
inappropriate; market too 
narrow). 
Each Faculty seeks market 
advice from RIO ( including 
views of international agents, 
where appropriate) before 
developing a programme. 
Each Faculty is assisted by 
RIO in  determining 
appropriate fees for 
programmes, taking account 
of  University/subject 
rankings and information on 
fees set by competitors. 
A University group is 
responsible for setting fees 
on the basis of a well- 
evidenced recommendation 
from the Faculty. 
Market demand – see 1. 
However, no views of 
international agents are 
recorded on C-CAP. 
Fees set as for other Dept X PGT 
programmes. 2018-19 intake: 
Scots: 55 
RUK: 5 
EU: 18 
International: 28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
Consult agents on 
demand in their 
areas 
 
 
 
5 
 
Appropriate resources not 
available within the 
University to support 
programme delivery (e.g. 
staff expertise and capacity, 
specialist equipment) 
 
 
Each Faculty operates a 
rigorous programme 
approval process designed to 
ensure robustness 
Delivery depends on 
appointment of new lecturer in 
Food Security. 
 
 
Some questions on equipment 
costs to be addressed by Dept X. 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
4 
16 
 Dept X to present 
business case for 
post asap. 
Dept X to identify 
any 
specialist 
equipment 
(including 
software) 
not  already 
available.

--- PAGE 25 ---

6 
Appropriate  resources  not 
available outwith   the 
University   to support 
programme  delivery (e.g. 
placement opportunities, 
practice-based tutors) 
Each Faculty operates a 
rigorous programme approval 
process designed to ensure 
robustness of programme 
proposal 
 
Not applicable (i.e. no external 
resources required) 
 
 
1 
 
 
1 
 
 
1 
 
 
None 
 
7 
Quality of programme poor, 
resulting in damage to 
University reputation 
Each Faculty operates robust 
procedures for programme 
approval, both involving 
independent reviewers 
 
Academic content and structure 
approved by FAC Sep 2018 
 
1 
 
3 
 
3 
 
None

--- PAGE 26 ---

ANNEX 3 PROGRAMME APPROVAL PROCESS

--- PAGE 27 ---

ANNEX 4 
 
UNIVERSITY OF STRATHCLYDE AWARDS FRAMEWORK 
 
The awards structure for undergraduate and postgraduate awards is as follows: 
 
Award Credit Requirement Minimum Level Requirement 
Certificate of Higher 
Education 
120 100 credits at Level 1 
Diploma of Higher Education 240 100 credits at Level 2 
Bachelor Degree 360 60 credits at Level 3 
Honours Degree 480 90 credits at Level 3 and 90 credits 
at Level 4 
Integrated Masters Degree 600 120 credits at Level 5 
Graduate Diploma 120 120 credits at Level 3 or Level 4 
Professional Graduate 
Diploma 
120 Graduate entry and all credits at 
Level 4 
Postgraduate Certificate 60 50 credits at Level 5 
Postgraduate Diploma 120 100 credits at Level 5 
Masters Degree 180 150 credits at Level 5 
Masters by Research 180 170 credits at Level 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7