--- PAGE 1 ---

P
OLICY & PROCEDURE FOR THE 
QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW OF 
ACADEMIC PROVISION 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 Policy & Procedure 
for the 
Quinquennial 
Review of 
Academic 
Provision 
Directorate of 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate – 
November 2021 
2021/22 
1.1 Policy & Procedure 
for the 
Quinquennial 
Review of 
Academic 
Provision 
Directorate of 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate - 
September 2023 
2023/24

--- PAGE 2 ---

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS ....................................................................................................... 1 
GLOSSARY .......................................................................................................................... 1 
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................... 3 
KEY POINTS ..................................................................................................................... 3 
PROCEDURE ....................................................................................................................... 6 
TIMINGS FOR QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW ........................................................................ 6 
DOCUMENTATION SUBMITTED TO THE REVIEW PANEL BY THE FACULTY ............. 8 
REVIEW PANEL ............................................................................................................. 11 
DEPARTMENT PARTICIPANTS ..................................................................................... 12 
STUDENT PARTICIPANTS ............................................................................................. 12 
REVIEW PROGRAMME.................................................................................................. 12 
REVIEW PANEL REPORT .............................................................................................. 13 
QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW ........................................................ Error! Bookmark not defined. 
Review Panel Report Template ............................................... Error! Bookmark not defined.

--- PAGE 3 ---

1 
 
GLOSSARY 
 
Enhancement-Led Institutional 
Review 
Higher Education Institutions are judged on their ability to 
manage the standards of their academic awards and the 
quality of the learning opportunities provided to students. 
These judgements are made by a review team appointed by 
the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education 
Scotland (QAA Scotland), which evaluates the effectiveness 
of the institution’s own quality assurance processes. 
 
Faculty A sub-division of the University, comprising a group of 
departments. The University of Strathclyde has four 
faculties: 
• Engineering 
• Humanities and Social Sciences 
• Science 
• Strathclyde Business School 
 
Internal Review Framework  A document detailing the University’s approach to reviewing 
its own provision, including Quinquennial Review, annual 
faculty reporting, annual programme review, module 
evaluation, and Thematic Review.  
 
Quality Assurance Committee 
(QAC) 
A University compliance committee that reports into Senate, 
QAC is responsible for ensuring that the quality processes 
within the University comply with academic standards.  
 
Quality Enhancement and 
Assurance Team (QEAT) 
The QEAT sits within the Education Enhancement 
Directorate and is responsible for the operational oversight 
of the University’s activities in relation to the enhancement 
of the student learning experience and quality assurance 
mechanisms, for example, internal review, academic 
regulations, external examiners, academic policies and 
procedures.  
 
Quinquennial Review of 
Academic Provision 
An internal review of Department undertaken on a rolling 
five-year basis, with the aim of scrutinising learning and 
teaching provision at undergraduate and postgraduate level 
for all modes of study, as well as undertaking a broader 
holistic review of the Department’s activities. 
 
Review Panel Manager The Faculty Manager (or nominee) who performs a 
coordinating and advisory role for the Review Panel and 
produces the Review Panel Report and the Report of Action 
Taken in Response to Recommendations.

--- PAGE 4 ---

2 
 
Review Panel An appointed group of internal and external academic, 
industry and professional services staff tasked with 
conducting a thorough and fair analysis of each 
Department’s provision, to confirm that the information 
provided in the Self-Evaluation Document reflects the 
experience of students as reported through the review 
process, that academic standards are being maintained and 
that the Department’s broader strategies are in line with 
those of the Faculty and the University. 
 
Self-Evaluation Document 
(SED) 
A document produced by the Department that comprises a 
reflective and critical analysis of learning and teaching and 
broader Department activities. The SED and supporting 
information is shared with the Review Panel in advance of 
the review.  
 
Senate The academic governing body within the University,  
responsible for all academic matters including academic  
standards and quality. 
 
TESTA (Transforming the 
Experience of Students Through 
Assessment) 
A methodology and suite of tools designed to help 
Departments reflect on assessment and feedback 
approaches and enhance the student experience.

--- PAGE 5 ---

3 
 
POLICY 
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. Quinquennial Review of Academic Provision, (known henceforth as Quinquennial 
Review), is an essential pillar of the University of Strathclyde’s institutional quality 
assurance and enhancement activities. Quinquennial Review forms part of the 
University’s Internal Review Framework1, which reflects the requirements of Institution-
led Review as  described by QAA Scotland. In producing this Policy, account has been 
taken of the QAA’s Advice & Guidance on Monitoring & Evaluation  and the Scottish 
Funding Council’s (SFC’s) Guidanc e to Higher Education on Quality from August 
2017-2022.  
 
2. This Policy underlines the priority of learning and teaching in undertaking Quinquennial 
Review, while also considering wider factors relevant to provision. The University 
therefore aims to take a holistic approach to Quinquennial Review, with the outcome 
being a Review Report that is a balanced account of strengths, challenges, 
opportunities and risks, and makes both commendations and recommendations. 
 
3. The SFC and QAA Scotland require that periodic review of provision should take place 
at the maximum of once every six years. At the University of Strathclyde, Quinquennial 
Review is implemented on a rolling five-yearly basis, with the Faculty having 
responsibility for reviewing Departments. 
 
4. Through the process of QAA Scotland’s Enhancement-led Institutional Review (ELIR), 
institutions are judged on their ability to manage the standards of their academic 
awards and the quality of the learning opportunities provided to students. Evidence 
from the Quinquennial Reviews of Department, and other internal review processes 
set out in the University’s Internal Review Framework, are an important component in 
the ELIR process. 
KEY POINTS 
5. An annual report is submitted to the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) in September 
each year. QAA Scotland also receives a copy of this report. Within the report, 
universities are required to provide details of the Quinquennial Reviews that took place 
in the preceding academic year, (i.e., for the report submitted to the SFC in September 
2021, Quinquennial Reviews undertaken in 2020/21 would be referenced). Copies of 
the Review Panel Reports and the Department’s response to the recommendations, 
are appended to the annual report. As these reports must be reviewed by QAC before 
they can be submitted, it is important that reviews taking place in Semester Two 
are scheduled early enough for the Review Panel Report to be generated, the 
Department to provide a response, the documentation to be considered by the 
Faculty Academic Committee and a submission made to QAC by 1 June. 
 
6. The Review Panel must dedicate at least 50% of its time to reviewing the student 
experience in relation to learning and teaching activities (see the Indicative Review 
Panel Agenda). 
 
                                                           
1 Currently in development

--- PAGE 6 ---

4 
 
7. Each Quinquennial Review includes scrutiny of all credit-bearing provision at 
undergraduate and postgraduate level for all modes of study. Any collaborative 
provision, Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and continuing education 
provision, is also scrutinised by the Quinquennial Review Panel, as is the supervision 
and experience of postgraduate research students. 
 
8. A primary aim of Quinquennial Review is to understand the student experience at a 
local level and for the University to be assured, via both self-evaluation by the 
Department and the outcomes of the Review Panel Report that: 
 
a.  the student experience is positive; 
 
b. the programmes of study offered by the Department are of an appropriate 
academic standard; and 
 
c. the content of programmes offered by the Department is both current and 
relevant to the wider national and international context. 
 
9. The University expects each Department to be reviewed by the Faculty at least once 
every five years, considering the two key areas of focus set out in paragraphs 10 and 
11 below. 
 
10. At least 50% of the quinquennial review event should be utilised to review all aspects 
of the Department’s learning and teaching activities. This part of the review provides 
the majority of the content of the Review Panel Report which is provided to QAC. This 
will include consideration of the following factors: 
 
a. The overall student experience and the students’ perceptions of the 
Department; 
b. The research student experience and community; 
c. The approach to learning and teaching, including consideration of any 
strategies; 
d. The student experience of assessment and feedback and the Department’s 
response to this; 
e. Methods for obtaining student feedback; 
f. Levels of student engagement; 
g. Responsiveness to student feedback, including how students are updated on 
actions taken in response to their feedback; 
h. Currency and relevancy of academic provision; 
i. Programme design and contact hours; 
j. Access to teaching staff and supervisors; 
k. Student career aspirations and associated support within the Department; 
l. Managing student progression at all levels of study; 
m. Support for undergraduate and postgraduate dissertations/projects; 
n. Placement opportunities and the management of these; 
o. Collaborative provision with other HEIs or companies and how these activities 
are managed; 
p. The Department’s future educational aims and plans.

--- PAGE 7 ---

5 
 
11. The other part of the review should focus on the broader aspects of the Department’s 
activities. Outcomes emerging from this part of the review which directly relate to 
learning and teaching should be included in the Review Panel Report submitted to 
QAC. All other outcomes should be formally reported to the Faculty Management 
Committee (or equivalent) for discussion and action. This part of the review will include 
consideration of the following factors: 
 
a. Management and Organisation: overview of the management and 
organisation of the Department, including communications and business 
structure (e.g., committees, management groups) and the leadership 
provided by that management; 
b. Research: overview of research structure including how postgraduate 
research students fit within this structure and how are they supported. Detail 
what research facilities are available to support teaching and learning. 
Provide information on postgraduate research student progress tracking. 
Consideration of how postgraduate research students who teach are trained 
and supported. Details of research collaborations that take place, and how 
postgraduate research students from collaborating institutions are supported;  
c. Knowledge Exchange: identifying opportunities that are provided to students 
to engage in entrepreneurship, industry engagement etc. Consider what 
opportunities are there for students to get involved in Public Engagement 
initiatives i.e., outreach; 
d. Resources: reflecting on the learning and teaching resources available within 
the Department and how successfully these meet the needs of students. 
Consideration of additional resources that would be desirable to improve the 
student experience.

--- PAGE 8 ---

6 
 
PROCEDURE 
 
TIMINGS FOR QUINQUENNIAL REVIEW 
12. An important element of managing Quinquennial Review is recognising the time scales 
for the activities that feed into the process. The table below sets out timescales for 
undertaking aspects of the review. A further Example Timeline for a Review, covering the 
key activities to an example timeline can be referred to for planning purposes. 
 
Timescale (before 
the review) 
Activity Responsibility 
36 months Approve the timing of the Review 
and communicate this to the 
Faculty 
Quality Assurance 
Committee (QAC) 
35 months  Confirm the schedule of review to 
Department 
Faculty Offices 
18 months Contact the Faculty to remind them 
of the Review in the following 
academic year and provide 
updated guidance 
 
 
 
 
Quality Enhancement & 
Assurance Team 
(QEAT) 
17 months Liaise with Department and set the 
approximate deadline date for the 
submission of the SED and confirm 
any supporting information the 
Faculty can provide and what the 
Department will need to produce 
Faculty Office 
16 months  Hold an initial meeting to agree 
work allocation for the SEDs 
Department 
9 months  Review Panel identified Department & Faculty 
9 months  Approximate Review date set and 
confirmed to the final QAC meeting 
of the preceding academic year 
Department & Faculty 
6 months Department prepares SED, and 
the Department and Faculty gather 
any supporting information 
Department & Faculty 
At least 3 months Finalisation of the SED and 
accompanying information begins 
Department & Faculty 
8 weeks  Submission of documentation to 
the Faculty Office  
Department 
6 weeks Faculty Office to finish reviewing 
documentation and any liaison with 
Department over any 
additions/amendments required 
Faculty 
At least 4 weeks SED and supporting information 
circulated to Review Panel 
Members  
 
 
Faculty

--- PAGE 9 ---

7 
 
Timescale (before 
the review) 
Activity Responsibility 
2 weeks  Structured preliminary meeting of 
the Review Panel takes place 
online or via correspondence, with 
any further information required 
from the Department identified by 
the Review Panel 
Faculty 
Day of Review Usually two days long, but 
potentially less for small 
Department 
Faculty 
Day of Review Post-Review Meeting: Mid-
afternoon of final day for Review 
Panel to consider and record 
findings 
Faculty 
 
Timescales (after the 
review) 
Activity Responsibility 
2 weeks Review Panel Manager 
circulates draft report to 
Review Panel Members, 
having obtained Convener 
approval 
Review Panel Manager 
4 weeks  Review Panel members 
provide feedback on the 
draft Review Panel Report  
Review Panel Members 
6 weeks  Report submitted to 
Department to check for 
factual inaccuracies 
Review Panel Convener 
9 weeks (no later than) Response from Department 
confirming any factual 
inaccuracies and providing a 
response to the Faculty in 
the form of completion of the 
Report of Action Taken in 
Response to 
Recommendations 
Head of Department 
Approximately two 
weeks ahead of Faculty 
Academic Committee 
(FAC) meeting (latest 
meeting needs to meet 
prior to 1 June for 
submission to QEAT) 
Report submitted to FAC 
with updates to responses to 
recommendations 
Head of Department 
FAC meeting FAC scrutinises the final 
submission from the 
Department and determines 
whether any 
additions/amendments 
required 
FAC 
1 June Report is submitted to QEAT FAC Convener & Manager

--- PAGE 10 ---

8 
 
June - August  QEAT and QAC Convenor 
consider the report and 
provide feedback to the 
Faculty on any further 
information it wishes to 
receive in advance of the 
first QAC of the following 
academic year.  
 
The QEAT will also produce 
an accompanying summary 
paper for presentation at the 
first QAC of the academic 
year.  
QEAT and QAC Convenor 
September - October QAC receives the QQR 
reports from the previous 
academic year and the 
follow-on reports from the 
QQR exercises conducted in 
the academic year before 
that,  
 
QAC confirms that initial 
responses from 
Departments are appropriate 
and looks forward to 
receiving the follow-on 
reports in the next academic 
year. 
 
QAC reviews the follow-on 
reports from the reviews 
taking place the academic 
year before last and 
confirms whether further 
information is required or if 
the review is formally closed.  
FAC Convener & QEAT 
Within two weeks of the 
review QAC meeting 
Faculty members on QAC 
inform the Department of the 
discussions and outcomes of 
QAC and ensure that 
Review Panel members are 
updated where necessary. 
QAC & FAC Managers 
 
DOCUMENTATION SUBMITTED TO THE REVIEW PANEL BY THE FACULTY 
13. The Faculty is responsible for obtaining the relevant documentation from the 
Department to meet the deadlines set out in paragraph 12.

--- PAGE 11 ---

9 
 
14. The Department is required to create a Self-Evaluation Document (SED), which should 
be critically reflective and evaluative in nature and, where possible, utilise data and 
information to provide context to observations and statements made within the SED. 
Department are required to use the Self-Evaluation Document Template when 
preparing the SED. 
 
15. To accompany the SED, the Department and the Faculty will gather existing 
supporting documentation to provide to the Review Panel. The supporting 
documentation should be clearly cross-referenced within the SED.  
 
16. The suggested list of supporting documentation below is not exhaustive, and 
requirements should be agreed by the Convener of the Review Panel and the Head of 
Department at an early point in the process: 
 
a. Any documents the Department has that outline its learning and teaching 
strategy, for example, Learning and Teaching Improvement Plans; 
 
b. External Examiners’ reports and Department responses for the last three 
academic years; 
 
c. Programme review reports from the last three academic years, which feed into 
the Faculty Annual Reporting process; 
 
d. Summaries of student feedback gathered by, or available to, the Department, for 
example NSS, PTES, PRES, and Graduate Outcomes Surveys; 
 
e. The most recent Quinquennial Review Panel Report and associated follow up 
reports; 
 
f. The most recent reports from accreditation visits by Professional and Statutory 
Bodies; 
 
g. The Department’s Strategy Statement/Plan and any implementation updates; 
 
h. A diagram showing the Department management structure (including committees 
and sub-committees); 
 
i. A Management Information Set for the Department, obtained by the Department 
from SUnBIRD. This is likely to include details of:  
 
i. numbers of postgraduate taught and undergraduate students over the 
past five years, including progression, withdrawal, and completion 
information;  
ii. numbers of postgraduate research students, their completion rates and 
their funding sources; 
iii. trend data for key performance indicators. 
 
j. Minutes of Department Committee/Sub-Committee/Student-Staff Liaison 
Committee meetings for the past three academic years, including the current 
academic year;

--- PAGE 12 ---

10 
 
k. The University’s Strategic Plan and Outcome Agreement; 
 
l. Any other material that the Department considers essential in allowing the 
Review Panel to form its views and recommendations.  
 
17. The documentation provided to the Review Panel should enable them to: 
 
a. Evaluate the student experience across all demographics of students within the 
Department; 
 
b. Understand the Department’s approach for engaging with its students and 
working them in partnership with regards to programme design, enhancing 
assessment and feedback etc.; 
 
c. Assess the extent of collaboration in both research and learning and teaching at 
all levels: within the Faculty, the University, the UK, the EU and internationally; 
 
d. Assess how the Department’s strategy aligns with the Faculty Plan and with the 
KPIs and targets set out in the University’s Strategic Plan; 
 
e. Understand the Department’s learning and teaching strategy; 
 
f. Be assured of the currency and relevancy of the Department/’s programmes in 
supporting students in achieving their career aims; 
 
g. Assess the extent of staff engagement with internal seminars and workshops 
with the national Enhancement Themes; 
 
 
h. Understand how the Department has responded to learning and teaching issues 
raised by Professional, Statutory and Regulatory Bodies (PSRBs) during 
accreditation visits and by External Examiners; 
 
i. Understand the structure of the Department and how all aspects of its functions 
are managed; 
 
j. Assess, as far as is possible, Department performance in research, learning and 
teaching and knowledge exchange against that of benchmark Department and 
institutions identified by the Department; 
 
k. Gain an understanding of resource distribution and the strategy the Department 
has in place for career and succession planning. 
 
l. Test the strength and validity of decisions taken by the Department on targets 
and priorities, including admissions requirements and intake targets, and 
retention and progression.

--- PAGE 13 ---

11 
 
REVIEW PANEL 
18. T he Review Panel has the responsibility to conduct a thorough and fair review of the 
Department’s provision, and to confirm that the information provided in the SED 
reflects the reality of the student experience. 
 
19. The Review Panel is tasked with producing a full report, based on its findings, using 
the Review Panel Report Template. 
 
20. The Review Panel will be convened by the Executive Dean of Faculty (or nominee) 
and will comprise the following members: 
 
a. At least two members external to the University, with discipline expertise and 
including one assessor from outwith Scottish Higher Education or Industry; 
 
b. At least one member of academic staff (but not normally more than two) from 
another faculty; 
 
c. Two faculty representatives from outwith the Department under review (one 
professorial, one non-professorial);  
 
d. One member of Professional Services staff from another Faculty or a central 
service (Administrative and Professional Services Grade 7 or above); 
 
e. One student member from another Department within the University;   
 
f. Review Panel Manager (typically the relevant Faculty Manager or nominee).  
 
21. Review Panel Members are expected to scrutinise the SED and accompanying 
information with a critical eye in advance of the review date and to input to the 
preliminary meeting of the Review Panel. In some instances, supplementary 
information may be made available to the Review Panel during the Review visit, but 
every effort should be made to ensure that all primary documentation is circulated in 
advance. 
 
22. During the review event, Review Panel members will meet with members of the staff 
and student community, to obtain information from the former and understand the 
experience of the latter. The Guidelines on Student Participation in Quinquennial 
Review provides suggested questions for Review Panel meetings with students in 
relation to learning and teaching.  
 
23. Following the review event, Review Panel members will receive a copy of the draft 
Report for final comment before this is circulated to the Head of Department. Once the 
report has been finalised and approved for factual accuracy, it will be circulated to 
Review Panel members for information. 
 
24. A copy of the Head of Department’s initial response to the Review Report, via 
completion of the Report of Actions Taken in Response to Recommendations will also 
be circulated to Review Panel members and will be received by Quality Assurance 
Committee for consideration.

--- PAGE 14 ---

12 
 
25. Once the Quality Assurance Committee has formally closed the review, usually at the 
start of the next academic year, the Review Panel Manager will send Review Panel 
members the final report from the Department and the relevant minutes of any Quality 
Assurance Committee meetings where the report was discussed. 
DEPARTMENT PARTICIPANTS 
26. Wherever appropriate, the Head of Department should ensure that Department staff 
are afforded the opportunity to contribute to the review process, including at the 
preparatory stages to: 
 
a. R aise issues for further discussion; 
b. S hare examples of good practice which they have found to be beneficial; and 
c. D iscuss the operation of the Department in an open and frank manner. 
 
27. Individual comments will not be personally attributed in the final report, although 
information from specific role holders may be referenced. 
 
28. Meetings with the Review Panel should be viewed as a dialogue between Department 
participants and members of the Review Panel. The Review Panel will wish to find out 
as much as possible about learning and teaching activities within the Department and 
the operation of the Department, and should be viewed as a ‘critical friend’. 
 
29. Department participants are encouraged to demonstrate a reflective approach to 
responding to Review Panel questions, to enable the Review Panel to identify and 
understand areas of good practice and those areas where the Department is seeking 
to enhance practices. 
STUDENT PARTICIPANTS 
30. The Department is responsible for sharing with students the Guidance for Students 
Meeting with the Quinquennial Review Panel in advance of the Review Panel date. 
The Guidance sets out what to expect on the day and suggestions on how to interact 
with the Review Panel members.  
 
31. To ensure that an accurate representation of students is achieved, the Department 
should encourage student participation from a broad group of students with potentially 
differing experiences: 
 
a. Home/EU/International students; 
b. Part-time/full-time students; 
c. U ndergraduate/postgraduate taught/postgraduate research students; 
d. Students on placements from partner institutions or study abroad placements; 
e. CPD participants. 
REVIEW PROGRAMME 
32. Most Quinquennial Reviews will take place over two days, however for smaller 
Department it may be that one day suffices. The Department should discuss plans for 
the review length with the Faculty, depending on the breadth and depth of the learning 
provision, to ensure the quality of learning and teaching at subject level is thoroughly 
scrutinised.

--- PAGE 15 ---

13 
 
33. The agenda (see the Indicative Review Panel Agenda) should be flexible and include 
opportunities for the Review Panel to meet formally with the Head of the Department, 
the Senior Management Team and other groups as appropriate, for example: 
 
a. A broad section of postgraduate taught/research and undergraduate students; 
b. Student-Staff Liaison Committee/class/Faculty student representatives. 
c. A cademic staff; 
d. R esearch staff; 
e. T he course co-ordinator(s) and teaching support staff; 
f. O ther professional administrative, technical and support staff. 
 
34. Space should be reserved within the programme to allow opportunities for the Review 
Panel to meet privately to take stock, reflect on discussions and re-direct focus where 
appropriate. 
 
35. It is recommended that the Review Panel should meet informally with students over 
coffee or lunch after meeting with them formally. Consideration should be given to the 
timing of the Review to optimize opportunities for a wide cross-section or 
representative group of students to either meet with the Review Panel or provide 
comments remotely. 
 
36. The Department is responsible for inviting members of staff and students to the 
appropriate sessions.  
 
37. Sufficient time should be allocated for the Review Panel to agree findings, record 
commendations and recommendations and provide initial feedback to the Department. 
REVIEW PANEL REPORT 
38. The Review Panel will prepare a report as follows: 
 
a. The Review Panel Manager will prepare the draft Review Panel Report, in 
consultation with the Convenor, using the Review Panel Report Template; 
 
b. The Review Panel Report must be evaluative as well as formative and provide a 
balanced account of strengths, areas for improvement, opportunities and risks, 
with a focus on commendations and recommendations; 
 
c. The draft Review Panel Report will be agreed by all Review Panel members; 
 
d. Once agreement on a first draft is reached, the Review Panel Report will be 
issued to the Head of Department under review for comment on any factual 
inaccuracies and for an initial response to the recommendations, utilising the 
Report of Action Taken in Response to Recommendations. 
 
e. The Review Panel Report and the Report of Action Taken in Response to 
Recommendations, will be scrutinised by the Faculty Academic Committee 
before being submitted to Quality Assurance Committee. 
 
f. A summary of the outcomes and actions to follow up will be included in the 
annual Faculty Academic Report, highlighting any University-level issues or risks

--- PAGE 16 ---

14 
 
so that these can be taken forward by the Department or Faculty with relevant 
parts of the University; 
 
g. Quality Assurance Committee will receive the Review Panel Report and updated 
Report of Action Taken in Response to Recommendations at the beginning of 
the next academic year, and determine whether to formally close the review. 
 
39. The University expects that: 
 
a. The Faculty Manager (or nominee) will take responsibility for initiating any follow 
up actions required to ensure the report, and completed forms, are provided to 
the Quality Assurance Committee by the required deadline. 
 
b. The Department will take responsibility for sharing content and communicating 
feedback from the Review Panel to staff and students.