--- PAGE 1 ---

INSTITUTION-LED 
REVIEW: THEMATIC 
REVIEW OF STUDENT- 
FACING PROFESSIONAL 
SERVICES POLICY & 
PROCEDURE 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A policy and 
procedure for the 
Thematic Review of 
student-facing 
professional services 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate From 2020 
onwards 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 
 
Version 1.0

--- PAGE 2 ---

Thematic Review Policy & Procedure 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
1. Thematic Review of Student-facing Professional Services, hereafter referred to as Thematic 
Review, is a quality enhancement and assurance process and is designed to be holistic and 
forward-looking. Approaches within the institution are reviewed, and best practice and 
emerging initiatives across the sector inform discussions. 
 
2. The purpose of Thematic Review is to evaluate the provision for students around themes in 
order to ensure the University is providing high-quality support to students. It is also 
intended as a means of identifying connectivity across the institution and potential 
opportunities for further enhancement and alignment of provision. The review process is 
driven by self-evaluation and reflection, with an enhancement-led approach. 
 
3. Thematic Review is one of the ways we support our Strategic Plan objective to deliver “an 
outstanding and distinctive student experience with high-quality student support throughout 
the learner journey”.1 Thematic Review is one of the quality review and monitoring 
mechanisms within our Quality Assurance Framework and review themes are selected in 
response to a range of factors, in accordance with the University’s Education Strategy. 
Thematic Review sits alongside our existing Internal Review: Policy Procedure and
 
Guidelines2 for Schools and Departments. These are collectively referred to as Institution- 
led Review and serve as our commitment to an enhancement-led approach to managing the 
quality of the student experience, in accordance with the Scottish Quality Enhancement 
Framework.3 
 
4. Thematic Review aligns with the Scottish Funding Council guidance to higher education 
institutions on quality which states that “all services contributing to the student experience 
should be reviewed as part of an institution’s approach”.4 Thematic Review contributes to 
our delivery of the Quality Assurance Agency requirement as stated in the UK Quality Code 
for Higher Education to have “sufficient and appropriate facilities, learning resources and 
student support services to deliver a high-quality academic experience”.5 
 
5. This is a policy of Senate, implementation of which is delegated to Education Strategy 
Committee (ESC). ESC oversees the Thematic Review process and approves the selection 
of themes. Quality Assurance Committee (QAC) receives reports and considers outcomes 
in the context of its responsibilities for the oversight of Institution Led Review processes of 
learning and teaching. QAC reports findings to ESC. ESC may refer outcomes to other 
strategic committees, as appropriate. Student representation is ensured through the 
University of Strathclyde’s Students’ Association (Strath Union) membership on Senate, 
ESC and QAC. More information on Senate and related committees can be found on our
 
University Committees web page.6 
 
 
1 https://www.strath.ac.uk/media/1newwebsite/documents/Download_the_Strategic_Plan_2015_-_2020.pdf, p11 
2https://www.strath.ac.uk/media/ps/cs/gmap/academicaffairs/policies/Internal_Review_Policy_Procedure_and_Guidelines_2015_Final_T 
ESTA_additions_v2_docx.pdf 
3 https://www.qaa.ac.uk/scotland/quality-enhancement-framework 
4 http://www.sfc.ac.uk/web/FILES/guidance_sfcgd112017/SFCGD112017-SFC-guidance-HE-institutions-quality.pdf, para.37, p11 
5 https://www.qaa.ac.uk/quality-code, p3 
6 https://www.strath.ac.uk/whystrathclyde/universitygovernance/committees/senate/

--- PAGE 3 ---

Thematic Review Policy & Procedure 
2 
 
 
 
 
6. This Policy & Procedure sets out the University of Strathclyde’s approach to Thematic 
Review, with guidance and templates available in the Thematic Review Handbook. 
 
PRINCIPLES OF REVIEW 
7. The overall aims of Thematic Review are: 
i. To ensure that the delivery of student support is aligned with the University’s strategic 
priorities within the University’s framework for managing academic quality; 
ii. To make recommendations to the University’s Quality Assurance Committee on the 
enhancement of the provision and/or processes under review; 
iii. To evaluate the effectiveness of provision in supporting demand, and in supporting 
students’ needs; 
iv. To identify opportunities for continuing improvement and enhancing the student 
experience; 
v. To identify actions and/or support required at institutional level; 
vi. To facilitate closer collaboration between professional service areas and services 
delivered through Schools, Departments and Faculties; 
vii. To identify examples of good practice; 
viii. To monitor actions taken based on the recommendations from the review. 
 
DEFINITIONS 
8. For the purposes of this Policy, the terminology in the table below is used to avoid extending 
the length of this document unnecessarily: 
 
Term Meaning 
Department Academic department, school, faculty or service, such 
as Accommodation, Library or IT Services for example 
Education Strategy Committee 
(ESC) 
The committee with delegated responsibility from 
Senate for the University’s strategic educational 
priorities 
Enhancement Themes QAA Scotland’s national agenda for enhancement 
Lead Service The Professional Service/department that the theme 
most closely aligns to 
Quality Assurance Committee 
(QAC) 
The committee with delegated responsibility from 
Senate for the University’s Quality Assurance and 
Academic Standards 
Professional Services Services that engage with students outside of their 
standard academic interactions, including support 
provision within all professional service Directorates, 
and the non-academic support within Faculties and 
Departments 
Reflective Analysis (RA) Submission from the Thematic Review Lead that 
describes and reflects on the institutional approach to 
the theme under review 
Strath Union The trading name of the University of Strathclyde’s 
Students’ Association

--- PAGE 4 ---

Thematic Review Policy & Procedure 
3 
 
 
   
Supporting Evidence Submitted with the Reflective Analysis, this will vary 
depending on the theme, but can include information 
such as team structures, annual reports, engagement 
data, presentations, policies, action plans etc 
 
 
ROLES 
9. The following table sets out the list of roles involved with thematic review, and their 
responsibilities: 
 
Role Function Authority 
Thematic Review 
Lead 
Director (or nominated 
Head of Service) that 
relates most closely to the 
theme for the review 
A leading role in the preparation for the 
review, overseeing the production of the 
Reflective Analysis submission and 
selecting colleagues to contribute 
Thematic Review 
Contributors 
Heads of the services (or 
nominated deputies) which 
have relevance to the 
theme for the review 
Contributing to and collaborating with 
colleagues to produce elements of the 
Reflective Analysis submission and 
supporting information 
Thematic Review 
Panel Convenor 
Deputy Associate Principal 
of Learning & Teaching 
Critically reviewing the Reflective Analysis 
submission, working with panel 
colleagues to devise the agenda for the 
review, chairing the review panel and 
contributing to the commendations, 
recommendations and report 
Internal Panel 
Members 
Two colleagues (one 
academic and one 
professional services) to sit 
on the review panel 
Critically reviewing the Reflective Analysis 
submission, attending the review panel 
and contributing to the thematic review 
commendations, recommendations and 
report 
External Panel 
Member(s) 
A minimum of one 
colleague from an external 
Higher Education (HE) 
institution to sit on the 
review panel 
Critically reviewing the Reflective Analysis 
submission, attending the review panel 
and contributing to the thematic review 
commendations, recommendations and 
report 
Representation 
from the student 
body 
Student representative Critically reviewing the Reflective Analysis 
submission, attending the review panel 
and contributing to the thematic review 
commendations, recommendations and 
report 
Thematic Review 
Coordinating 
Reviewer 
Colleague from Education 
Enhancement 
Provides guidance to all involved in the 
thematic review process, organising 
briefing meetings with relevant 
colleagues, assisting with logistical 
preparations for the Reflective Analysis 
submission and responsible for the timely 
production of the draft report and 
dissemination of the final report.

--- PAGE 5 ---

Thematic Review Policy & Procedure 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
SCOPE 
10. This Policy & Procedure applies to all student-facing professional services, whether they are 
based in the faculties or in the professional services directorates. 
 
11. Thematic Review considers provision for students. Provision for staff is out of scope. 
 
PROCEDURE 
12. Selection of themes is driven through consultation with stakeholders and the key education 
committees (QAC & ESC). Theme proposals will emanate from the following sources: 
i. common themes emerging from Internal Reviews; 
ii. common themes identified in Faculty Annual Reports; 
iii. responses to internal and/or external drivers; 
iv. consideration of institutional risks and opportunities; 
v. matters arising through Annual Plans and meetings of the committees of ESC; 
vi. key themes raised in student surveys. 
 
13. Selection of Review Panel members is undertaken by the Deputy Associate Principal of 
Learning & Teaching, the Convenor of Education Strategy Committee and the Director of 
Education Enhancement. Where possible, Panel members will be selected because they 
have professional experience and knowledge in the theme under review. Panel members 
will not be drawn from the professional or faculty services under review. Panel constitution 
is approved through Quality Assurance Committee and endorsed by Education Strategy 
Committee. 
 
14. The approach to the review will depend on the theme under review, however the following 
guiding principles apply to all reviews: 
i. Balance – all stakeholders are given equal opportunity to contribute to the review 
and the review panel will consider all submissions fairly and appropriately; 
ii. Efficiency – straightforward processes are used, with duplication of effort avoided; 
iii. Transparency – communications will be clear and timely, with a collaborative 
approach to information-sharing adopted. 
 
PROCEDURAL STEPS 
 
15. Thematic Review procedure can be identified as three distinct phases: Preparation, Review 
and Outcomes. 
 
Phase 1 – Preparation (4-5 Months) 
 
16. Following confirmation of the theme by Education Strategy Committee, the Thematic 
Review Lead, and other senior colleagues as appropriate, will meet with the Thematic 
Review Manager to consider the remit and scope of the review. A timeline for the review will 
be considered, as well as individuals/groups to be included in the review, and the

--- PAGE 6 ---

Thematic Review Policy & Procedure 
5 
 
 
 
documentation to support the review. The approach to the review will also be considered, 
and the schedule of the review will be agreed. 
 
17. A short Reflective Analysis (RA) report will be produced by the Thematic Review Lead, in 
partnership with colleagues from other related areas and with support from Education 
Enhancement. The Reflective Analysis report will: 
i. provide a reflective evaluation and analysis of the provision, aligned to the theme of 
the review; 
ii. consider the key issues for the review; 
iii. assess the processes and systems in place, as they relate to the review theme; 
iv. provide supporting evidentiary information. 
 
18. The RA is a useful exercise and of benefit to those involved in the process. The report will 
append supporting evidentiary information, for example any relevant data that is available at 
the time of the review, such as results of student feedback surveys, annual reports and 
service user data. Guidance on the preparation of the RA (including a template) and 
selection of supporting information is available in the Thematic Review Handbook. The 
report should be submitted to the Thematic Review Manager by the deadline set by ESC, 
usually two months before the review is due to take place. This allows time for the Thematic 
Review Manager to undertake an initial review of the RA and supporting evidence and liaise 
with the Lead Service to clarify any points of detail. 
 
19. In parallel with the RA preparation, Education Enhancement will provide support with the 
administration of the review, for example finding suitable reviewers for the panel and 
assisting with practical arrangements around preparing for the review. Colleagues from 
stakeholder services will be advised of the review dates as soon as they are arranged in 
order to protect availability. 
 
20. The Review Panel will receive the RA and supporting information six weeks in advance of 
the review meeting to enable them to engage with the submission and plan the agenda for 
the review. The Review Panel Convenor will provide an agenda for the review three weeks 
in advance of the review date, in discussion with the remainder of the Panel where possible. 
 
Phase 2 – Review (One to Two Days) 
 
21. The Review event will be structured around a series of meetings, focussed on the remit of 
the review and informed by the contents of the Reflective Analysis. A template for the review 
event timetable is included in the Thematic Review Handbook. The review event timetable 
will indicate which Review Panel member will lead each meeting, as well as the types of 
colleagues and/or students that would be invited to each meeting. 
 
22. The Review event will take between one and two days depending on the scope of the theme 
being explored as well as the number of meetings the panel wishes to conduct. 
 
23. Invitations to stakeholders to attend meetings will be sent out by the Thematic Review 
Manager. Appropriate catering will be arranged for the event. 
 
24. At the conclusion of the Review event, the Thematic Review Panel Convenor will feed back 
initial comments to stakeholders.

--- PAGE 7 ---

Thematic Review Policy & Procedure 
6 
 
 
 
 
Phase 3 – Outcomes (1-2 months) 
 
25. The Review Panel will discuss their commendations and any recommendations, following 
which Education Enhancement will draft the outcome report within two weeks for the panel 
to approve. The outcome report will include evidence for the recommendations and 
commendations to explain why a process or service is being highlighted. 
 
26. Panel members are required to give feedback on the report within two weeks, and shortly 
afterwards the final draft will be issued. 
 
27. A final draft will be circulated to the Thematic Review Lead and appropriate Senior 
Executive Lead for the Professional Service to check the report for accuracy, and have two 
weeks to flag any necessary corrections. After the matters of accuracy have been 
addressed the Review Panel Convenor will submit the final report to the Thematic Review 
Lead. 
 
28. The Thematic Review Lead and key Stakeholders will be invited to respond to the 
recommendations from the report, in order to indicate any actions taken or planned. Their 
responses will be included for consideration at QAC and ESC. 
 
29. The Thematic Review outcome report will be shared at Quality Assurance Committee for 
discussion and reported to Education Strategy Committee for information. QAC committee 
members will consider the recommendations, related follow-up actions and the impact on 
the student experience. The Committees will also comment on good practice identified 
within the report and identify methods by which this can be shared with a wider audience. 
 
FOLLOW-ON MONITORING 
 
30. Recommendations and actions from the review will be monitored through a structured 
process: 
i. Six months after the date of the report of the review, the areas remitted with actions 
will submit a Stage 1 Progress Report to QAC for comment, approval and feedback. 
ii. Twelve months after the date of the report of the review, a Stage Two Progress 
Report will be submitted by the review area and will be considered by Quality 
Assurance Committee and reported to Education Strategy Committee for information. 
iii. Any outstanding recommendations and actions will be reviewed, with deadlines 
proposed for completion to be agreed. At this point, Quality Assurance Committee will 
decide whether to formally close the review or whether it requires a further progress 
report within a specified timeframe. 
 
31. Review topics may be revisited for further review at the discretion of the University. This will 
be determined through the procedure outlined in paragraph 12 of this policy.

--- PAGE 8 ---

Thematic Review Policy & Procedure 
7 
 
 
 
 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
 
The Thematic Review Handbook contains additional information as follows: 
 
Section Subject Owner 
Section A Procedure Flowchart (including reporting lines) Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section B Expected Timelines Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section C Thematic Review Framework Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section D Guidance for producing the Reflective Analysis 
(including template) 
Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section E Guidance for selection of Supporting Evidence for 
review 
Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section F Review Panel Terms of Reference & Constitution Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section G Review Schedule Template and example schedule Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section H Review Meeting Agenda Template and example 
questions 
Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section I Review Panel Report Template Education 
Enhancement (LL) 
Section J Report of Action Taken in Response to 
Recommendations Template 
Education 
Enhancement (LL)