--- PAGE 1 ---

PGR LEAVE 
SUPPORT 
POLICY 
 
 
 
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A policy confirming 
the provision of 
PGR Leave 
Support 
Strathclyde 
Doctoral 
School 
18th November 
2020 
From AY 2020-21 
1.1 Amendments to 
Carers Leave and 
Addition of 
Compassionate 
Leave to Policy 
Strathclyde 
Doctoral 
School 
17th November 
2021 
From AY 2021-22 
1.2 Amendments to 
Compassionate 
Leave to create 
Discretionary 
Leave provision 
Strathclyde 
Doctoral 
School 
  
1.3 Amendments to 
Medical Leave to 
align with change 
to UKRI training 
grant terms and 
conditions 
Strathclyde 
Doctoral 
School 
 From AY 2025-26

--- PAGE 2 ---

Contents 
POLICY STATEMENT ............................................................................................................... 2 
SCOPE ...................................................................................................................................... 2 
ELIGIBILITY .............................................................................................................................. 2 
MEDICAL LEAVE ...................................................................................................................... 4 
MATERNITY/ BIRTH PARENT/ PATERNITY/ PARTNER/ SHARED PARENTAL/ ADOPTION 
LEAVE ....................................................................................................................................... 4 
CARERS LEAVE ....................................................................................................................... 6 
DISCRETIONARY LEAVE......................................................................................................... 6 
APPENDIX A – Processes and Procedures ............................................................................ 8

--- PAGE 3 ---

POLICY STATEMENT 
 
1. The University of Strathclyde is committed to promoting a positive attitude to work- 
life balance and has a range of benefits policies that help staff and students 
accommodate personal and family commitments. In line with this, the University 
aims to encourage doctoral research student well-being through the provision of 
paid (stipend payment) leave support to ensure their ongoing academic success. 
 
SCOPE 
2. A review of the Postgraduate Researcher (PGR) lifecycle revealed 
inconsistencies in leave provision for doctoral students across the University. To 
address this and promote equality of opportunity, the University of Strathclyde 
established the PGR Leave Support Fund. This Fund allows all funded doctoral 
students receiving a University-administered stipend to apply for paid leave (stipend 
payment), regardless of their source of funding. Eligible leave includes 
Medical, Maternity/Birth Parent,   Paternity/Partner, Shared Parental, Adoption, 
Carers, and Discretionary leave. 
 
ELIGIBILITY 
3. Only doctoral research students are eligible to apply for this Fund. 
 
4. Applicants must be fully registered at the University, and be in receipt of a stipend 
(maintenance grant) to be eligible to apply. 
 
5. Both full-time and part-time doctoral research students are eligible to apply. Part-
time students will be funded on a pro-rata basis, as per their standard stipend 
payments. 
 
6. UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)1 funded students are only eligible to apply 
for Carers Leave, Shared Parental, or Discretionary Leave through this Fund, 
as funding    for periods of Medical, Maternity, Paternity, or Adoption Leave are 
covered by the  UKRI grants through which their studentships are funded. 
 
7. Doctoral research students beyond their funded period and/or registered as 
‘Completing’ are not entitled to paid leave through this Fund. 
 
8. UKRI funded students are entitled to a number of days annually for paid carers 
leave, special leave (including bereavement), and additional disability-related 
leave including where adjustments have been delayed.  Where a period of up to 
three months’ leave is required under either Carers' Leave or Discretionary 
 
 
1 1 UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) encompasses the 7 research councils: the Engineering and Physical 
Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the Arts and 
Humanities Research Council (AHRC), the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC), the 
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), the Natural Environment Research Council 
(NERC), and the Medical Research Council (MRC).

--- PAGE 4 ---

Leave, all students—including those funded by UKRI —are expected to apply to 
the PGR Leave Fund, which provides support for extended leave in these 
categories. 
 
9. Applicants are required to take Voluntary Suspension for the associated period of 
leave. This allows fee payments to be suspended and the studentship duration to 
be extended in line with the period of leave. 
 
10. International students who hold a visa to study in the UK should discuss any 
potential visa implications resulting from taking voluntary suspension with the 
Visa Compliance team as early as possible.  
 
11. For international students holding a visa who are unable to take voluntary 
suspension, applications to the PGR Leave Support Fund will be considered on a 
case-by-case basis. The level of paid leave support available will be subject to 
the conditions of their visa. 
 
12. Students should contact their Departmental/University administrative contact and 
Supervisor as soon as possible when considering taking Voluntary Suspension 
and applying to this Fund, as it may have an impact on their studentship funding 
package. 
 
13. All applications must be approved prior to any leave being taken. Retrospective 
applications will not be considered except in cases of medical emergency or 
exceptional circumstances. Doctoral research students in receipt of support from 
this Fund will receive payments at the same level as their monthly stipend 
payments during the paid leave period. 
 
14. If a doctoral research student withdraws after or during the period they are 
receiving support through this Fund, they are not required to repay the funding 
received. 
 
15. Any overpayments made to a student, due to withdrawal during a period of paid 
leave, must be repaid to the University. 
 
16. All applications to the Fund will be managed on a case-by-case basis and 
considered on the basis of the information provided in the dedicated application 
form. 
 
17. Departments, Faculties and/or external funders may provide further cover   beyond 
the provision of the Fund for any type of leave. This is entirely at their discretion, 
should they deem it necessary, and the funds are available to do so. 
 
18. Stipend payments can only be made on a monthly basis. Therefore, where a 
doctoral research student is granted paid leave under the Fund that starts or ends 
in the middle of a month, this will be rounded up or down to the nearest month.

--- PAGE 5 ---

MEDICAL LEAVE 
19. The Fund can cover stipend payments for absences covered by a medical 
certificate for up to 28 weeks in a rolling 12-month period. 
 
20. Periods of medical leave after the initial 28 weeks can be taken, but no stipend 
can be provided through the Fund. 
 
21. Cumulative periods of medical leave can be applied for up to the maximum of 28 
weeks in a rolling 12-month period. 
 
22. Voluntary Suspension must be taken for the period of leave to allow fee payments 
to be suspended and the studentship duration to be extended in line with the period 
of leave. The student should complete the  Voluntary Suspension Form and 
submit this to their Supervisor/Departmental administrative contact who will 
arrange for the form to be processed within the Department and Faculty and sent 
to Student Business for approval. 
 
23. Medical Leave may be curtailed at any point, but students must inform the Fund 
managers to ensure fee and stipend payments are managed correctly. 
 
24. An initial shorter period of Medical Leave may be extended, up to a maximum of 
28 weeks leave with stipend paid. A new application to the Fund must be 
submitted, as well as further Voluntary Suspension applied for. 
 
25. There is no qualifying period for Medical Leave. 
 
26. Recipients of the Fund may be required to provide evidence (e.g. a fit note) to the 
University that they are fit to return to their doctoral research work prior to being 
able to return. This would only apply to those on leave due to illness/health 
conditions. 
 
MATERNITY/ BIRTH PARENT/ PATERNITY/ PARTNER/ SHARED PARENTAL/ 
ADOPTION LEAVE 
 
27. An individual risk assessment must be conducted for a student who informs the 
University that they are any of: (i) pregnant; (ii) breastfeeding; or (iii) have given 
birth in the last 6 months. 
 
28. Doctoral research students can apply for up to 12 months of Maternity/Birth 
Parent or Shared Parental Leave. 
 
29. The first 6 months of Maternity/Birth Parent Leave will be paid at the doctoral 
research student’s standard monthly stipend rate. The following 3 months are paid 
at a level commensurate with University employee entitlements to statutory 
maternity pay. The final 3 months are not paid. 
 
30. Adoption Leave will be granted on the same basis as Maternity/Birth Parent Leave.

--- PAGE 6 ---

31. In the event of the loss of a baby after the 24th week of pregnancy, including stillbirth 
or neonatal death, leave will be granted on the same terms as Maternity/Birth Parent 
Leave. 
 
32. In circumstances where the mother, birth parent, or main adopter passes away 
during or shortly before the period of Maternity/Birth Parent or Adoption Leave, their 
partner will be entitled to leave on the same basis. 
 
33. Part-time students will receive Maternity/Birth Parent/Paternity/Partner/Shared 
Parental/Adoption Leave pay on a pro-rata basis through their stipend and if 
they are working part-time, may receive a further pro-rata payment from their 
employer (dependent on employer’s terms and conditions). Part-time students 
working full-time are not eligible for a stipend and therefore will not be eligible to 
apply to this Fund. 
 
34. Partners, who are doctoral research students, are entitled to 1 month paid 
Ordinary Paternity/Partner Leave at their standard monthly stipend rate. 
 
35. Parents/partners may be entitled to up to 50 weeks of Shared Parental Leave; this 
may include paid and unpaid leave, depending on the individual circumstances. 
 
36. There is no qualifying period for Maternity/Birth Parent/Paternity/Partner/Shared 
Parental/Adoption Leave. 
 
37. Voluntary Suspension must be taken for the period of Maternity/Birth 
Parent/Paternity/Partner/Shared Parental/Adoption Leave to allow fee payments 
to be suspended and the studentship duration to be extended. The student 
should complete the  Voluntary Suspension Form and submit this to their 
Supervisor/Departmental administrative contact who will arrange for the form to 
be processed within the Department and Faculty and sent to Student Business for 
approval.  
 
38. Where both parents/partners hold doctoral research studentships at the University, 
each must submit a separate application. If both parents/partners decide to take 
leave at the same time, the combined leave taken counts against the overall leave 
entitlement (e.g. if both parents/partners take 4 weeks leave each simultaneously, 
it will count as 8 weeks from the overall leave and pay provision). 
 
39. Paternity/Partner Leave applicants must provide evidence to the Department that 
their partner has either returned to work or will be taking Shared Parental Leave. 
 
40. Maternity/Birth Parent/Paternity/Partner/Shared Parental/Adoption Leave 
recipients may curtail their leave at any point, but must inform the Fund 
managers. 
 
41. Maternity/Birth Parent Leave applicants must take the statutory 2 weeks 
Maternity Leave following the birth of the child. 
 
42. Maternity/Birth Parent/Paternity/Partner/Adoption/Parental leave recipients may 
increase the period of leave up to the set maximum, but must inform the Fund 
managers 1 month in advance and also submit a new application if eligible for 
additional funding through the scheme.

--- PAGE 7 ---

CARERS LEAVE 
43. Student carers are encouraged to read the University’s Student Carers Policy for 
further information on available support at the University. 
 
44. In order to receive support from the Fund, a student must be recognised by the 
University as a student carer. On receipt of an application for Carers Leave, the 
Fund managers will contact the Widening Access Team to obtain confirmation that 
the University is aware of the student’s carer status. 
 
45. A definition and evidence of status of a student carer is outlined in the University’s 
Student Carers Policy. 
 
46. The Fund can cover stipend payments for absences of up to 3 months within a 
12-month rolling period.  
 
47. Voluntary Suspension must be taken for the period of leave to allow fee payments to 
be suspended and the studentship duration to be extended in line with the period of 
leave. The student should complete the  Voluntary Suspension Form and submit this 
to their Supervisor/Departmental administrative contact who will arrange for the form 
to be processed within the Department and Faculty and sent to Student Business for 
approval. 
 
48. Part-time students will be funded on a pro-rata basis, as per their standard stipend 
payments. 
 
49. There is no qualifying period for Carers Leave. 
 
50. Applications will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, including any 
documentation required to confirm the leave requirement. 
 
DISCRECTIONARY LEAVE 
51. Students are encouraged to explore the Disability and Wellbeing Service for further 
information on available support at the University.  
 
52. Eligible students can apply to the Fund for up to 3 months paid Discretionary Leave 
within any 12-month period.  
 
53. Discretionary Leave may be granted in a range of circumstances, including but not 
limited to: the death, serious injury, or serious illness of an immediate family 
member; the student being a victim of serious crime; pregnancy loss before the 24th 
week of pregnancy (either personally experienced by the student or by their partner); 
witnessing or being involved in a traumatic event; undergoing gender transition; 
experiencing non-medical difficulties related to a disability (including those arising 
from delayed adjustments beyond the student’s control); or undergoing a significant 
family breakdown. 
 
54. An immediate relative is defined as a parent, partner, sibling or child.  
 
55. Discretion may be exercised in the event of the death of a close relative not classed 
as an immediate relative, for instance where the student is residing with a 
grandparent who has died.

--- PAGE 8 ---

56. Voluntary Suspension must be taken for the period of leave to allow fee payments to 
be suspended and the studentship duration to be extended in line with the period of 
leave. The student should complete the  Voluntary Suspension Form and submit this 
to their Supervisor/Departmental administrative contact who will arrange for the form 
to be processed within the Department and Faculty and sent to Student Business for 
approval. 
 
57. Part-time students will be funded on a pro-rata basis, as per their standard stipend 
payments. 
 
58. There is no qualifying period for Discretionary Leave.  
 
59. Applications will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, including any documentation 
required to confirm the leave requirement.

--- PAGE 9 ---

APPENDIX A – Processes and Procedures 
 
1. Initial Stage 
a. In the first instance, doctoral research students must contact their primary 
Supervisor to discuss any potential leave requirement. 
b. The relevant Departmental PGR administrative staff member should also be 
informed about the potential Voluntary Suspension as soon as possible, to enable 
them to check for any potential impact on the doctoral research student’s funding. 
c. The supervisor and student are responsible for ensuring that funders are made 
aware of any changes to a student’s status/end date relating to this policy. 
 
2. Application Stage 
a. The doctoral research student should ensure they have read the PGR Leave 
Support Fund Policy document and should address any queries to the Fund 
Managers. 
b. The doctoral research student must complete and sign the dedicated PGR Leave 
Support Fund application form. 
c. The doctoral research student’s primary Supervisor should sign the application 
form before it is submitted to the Departmental PGR administrative colleague. 
d. The doctoral research student must provide evidence to the Department of the 
leave requirement where appropriate (medical certificates, MATB1 form, etc.). To 
ensure that personal data is shared with as few members of staff as possible, 
these documents should not be provided to the Fund Managers. Departments will 
be required to confirm that they hold these documents. Departments are 
responsible for gathering and storing personal data in line with the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR). 
e. The student must also complete and submit a Voluntary Suspension form for the 
appropriate period. 
 
3. Review Stage 
a. The Department must ensure applications are fully completed and signed, and 
submit the form to the Fund Managers. 
b. The Departments should keep records of all documentation submitted. 
c. The Fund Managers will process and review all applications. 
d. The Fund Managers will inform the Department of the outcomes of all 
applications, and ensure up-to-date records are held on all applications. 
 
4. Award Stage 
a. The Department should inform all applicants of the outcome. 
b. The Department must update the PGR Studentship System, inform the Finance 
Office of any necessary financial changes and process any FMS journals 
required. 
c. Successful doctoral research applicants to the Fund must update Supervisors, 
Department and/or the Fund Managers of any relevant changes to 
circumstances. 
d. Supervisors and Departments are expected to provide appropriate support to 
doctoral research students on return to their studies, including phased returns 
where appropriate.