--- PAGE 1 ---

POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH 
MONITORING FRAMEWORK: 
CORE EXPECTATIONS FOR PGR 
MONITORING AND REVIEW 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 This document 
outlines the core 
expectations for 
monitoring and 
review of PGR 
students. 
DAP (Quality 
Assurance and 
Student Experience) 
 
 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate 
February 2024 
  March 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable 
body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263 
 
 
 
 
 
Version 1.0

--- PAGE 2 ---

Postgraduate Research Monitoring Framework: 
Core Expectations for PGR Monitoring and Review 
 
Background 
Following an action which arose at the meeting of ESC in October 2022, QAC has been tasked with 
developing a Postgraduate Research (PGR) Monitoring Framework which outlines the core, minimum 
expectations for monitoring and review of PGR students across the Institution.  
 
This Framework is intended to provide a baseline, broad structure and it is understood that subject-
specific information relevant to each Department/School will also supplement the review and 
monitoring of individual students.  
 
The proposed Framework sets out the key principles of PGR monitoring and review and provides a 
baseline standard upon which staff can structure the regular monitoring of progress, in partnership with 
students. The Framework will ensure greater parity across the University, support staff in their 
monitoring of PGR progression, and align to the UK Quality Code
. The Framework will also provide 
clarity and structure and confirm expectations for PGR students throughout their programme of study. 
 
This Framework supplements the Supervisory Agreement for PGRs and their Supervisors, PGR 
General Academic Regulations, Code of Practice for PGR Students, and Strathclyde Doctoral School 
guidance on progression monitoring.  
 
In developing the Framework, a review of current PGR monitoring and review policy and practice from 
across the University has been undertaken and commonality of practice across all faculties noted. A 
review of regulatory guidelines and current practice across the sector, in relation to PGR monitoring 
and review, was also undertaken. Details can be made available on request. 
 
In accordance with the ESC action, this process has been led by the Deputy Associate Principal 
(Academic Quality & Student Experience) in conjunction with the Quality Enhancement and Assurance 
Team (QEAT), and the Strathclyde Doctoral School (SDS) with extensive Faculty input. The initial 
consultation paper was prepared by the DAP, QEAT and SDS then circulated to Faculty colleagues, 
via Vice Deans Academic for comment. Feedback from the initial consultation was incorporated into 
the Framework which was then reviewed by QEAT and SDS colleagues. A series of further  
consultations, of the updated Framework paper, were undertaken with Faculty staff and, again, the 
paper was updated to reflect their comments. Further updates were made following review by QAC 
and ESC in December 2023.

--- PAGE 3 ---

Proposed Framework: Core Expectations for PGR Monitoring and Review 
 Timescales Reviewers Progression 
decision made 
by 
Initial Review Between 3 and 6 months from 
student enrolment on 
programme of study1 
Supervisory Team2 Supervisory Team 
First Annual Review Between 7 and 12 months Review Panel3 Review Panel 
Interim Review c. 18 months Supervisory Team Supervisory Team 
Second Annual Review c. 24 months Review Panel Review Panel 
Interim Review c. 30 months Supervisory Team Supervisory Team 
Final Review/ 
Pre-submission Period4 
Prior to thesis submission 
deadline, allowing the student 
sufficient preparation time. 
Review Panel Review Panel5 
 
It is recommended that Supervisory Teams implement additional regular supervisory meetings or 
additional interim reviews if required, for example as a consequence of changing circumstances or 
concerns relating to student performance.  
 
In line with paragraph 196 of the Code of Practice for PGR Students, part-time students should follow 
the same review schedule pattern or sequence as full-time students; this should be extended for the 
duration of study. 
 
 
Examples of Progression Requirements 
It is acknowledged that progression requirements will be determined by Faculty/Department and 
subject-specific guidance, however, in developing these guidelines for Minimum Expectations for PGR 
Monitoring and Review a number of examples of best practice were identified. The following are 
examples of progression requirements at various stages of PGR programmes (PhD and professional 
doctorates). They are indicative of a range of current good practice from across the University. 
These reflect the diversity and range of progression monitoring activities and expectations across 
Faculties, and Departments. They will not be applicable to all disciplines but are presented below 
for information and consideration, if appropriate.  
 
Initial Review 
• A clear research focus and plan for literature review, with some consideration given to research 
methodology and philosophical assumptions 
• Planning for ethical approval, environmental impact assessment and equality impact 
assessment 
• Planning for health and safety, and risk assessments, including work undertaken off-campus 
 
1 PhD and, where applicable, Professional Doctorate, Master of Research and MPhil programmes. 
2 The Supervisory Team comprises the Primary Supervisor and any secondary Supervisors. The Supervisory 
Team provides independent advice and support, brings subject expertise to the team, and, in some cases, 
provides pastoral support. External team members are not expected to undergo supervisory training.  
3 The Review Panel comprises of a minimum of two members of academic staff, at least one of whom must be  
independent of the Supervisory Team. 
4 The point at which the decision is made regarding progress to completing stage to be agreed at Faculty -level. In 
cases where a student has not submitted within the expected timeframe following the final review, progress 
reviews should continue in line with the usual timescales.
 
5 Where Departmental standard practice does not include a formal final review, the decision to progress to 
completion stage may then be made by the Supervisory Team.

--- PAGE 4 ---

3 
 
• Completion of training modules on Tackling Gender-Based Violence and #StrathEqual: 
equality, diversity and inclusion for students 
• Establish and agree professional development requirements 
• Finalise PhD Development Plan: 
o brief description of objectives of PhD 
o expected activities during development of project including expected deliverables 
o publication strategy 
o data management strategy 
o mode of engagement between student and supervisor 
o training requirements 
 
Interim Reviews 
• Written progress report 
• Evidence of progress 
 
First Annual Review6 
• Written report comprising outline of research project and provisional calendar for future work  
• A clear research focus and defined research question(s) 
• A clear research methodology and the philosophical assumptions guiding the research; any 
results obtained to date 
• Completed literature review 
• Some progress made on experimental or case study work (data collection)Thesis chapters: 
titles and potentially some chapters drafted 
• Journal paper or conference paper drafted and submitted 
• Progress to date on professional development activities, including Postgraduate Certificate in 
Researcher Professional Development/Research Methodology for Business and Management 
(PgCert RPD/RMBM) update if relevant, and plan to continue development activities. 
• Details of any publications/planned publications (journal/conference)  
• Presentation 
 
Second Annual Review (in addition to examples provided for First Annual Review) 
• Data analysis completed, or in the final phases of completion 
• Thesis structured/planned, with some chapters drafted 
• Journal paper or conference paper drafted and submitted  
• Experience of presenting at national or international conference 
 
Final/Pre-submission Review (in addition to examples provided for First and Second Annual Reviews) 
• Data analysis completed 
• Thesis writing well underway, nearing completion 
• Presented at more than one national or international conference, with paper(s) included in 
conference proceedings 
• Completion of PgCert RPD/RMBM/researcher development skills training  
• Environmental Impact Assessment/Equality Impact Assessment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 In cases where a student’s period of funding is limited to the minimum duration of study, additional support 
measures may be put in place, from the outset, to assist students to complete within their funding timescales.

--- PAGE 5 ---

4 
 
 
Potential Outcomes of Review and Corresponding Actions 7 
1. Satisfactory progress8 – the student is progressing well against their research plan and their 
training and development plan and is ready to engage with the next stage of the research.  
a. P roceed to next academic stage/submission of thesis and 
b. Performance targets agreed for next review. 
 
2. Satisfactory progress with reservations – the student has not made sufficient progress 
against the research plan or the training and development plan, and the supervisory team has 
put a remedial plan in place to get the student to the required level to progress to the next stage 
of research.  
a. Proceed to next academic stage and 
b. A gree set of actions, based on detailed and comprehensive feedback, to address 
identified weaknesses/omissions to be completed by specified deadline (this should be 
scheduled in advance of the next review, for example within a three-month period).  
 
3. Unsatisfactory progress9 - there are significant concerns with the student’s progress, and 
their ability to progress to the next stage of research. 
a. Student is required to undertake corrective action, based on detailed and comprehensive 
feedback, within specified timeframe (e.g. three months), at the end of which a subsequent 
formal review will be undertaken or 
b. Transfer to alternative degree (e.g. MPhil, MSc, PgDip, PgCert) or 
c. Student required to withdraw. 
 
An unsatisfactory outcome should result in a registration review to assess the circumstances around 
the student’s progress and determine if the student can be provided with support to get them back on 
track, or if the student should consider a period of voluntary suspension, be recommended for an exit 
award, or recommended for withdrawal from the programme10. In instances where a student is 
transferred to an alternative degree or required to withdraw, this should be signed off by the PGR 
Director, or equivalent, and Head of Department, and reported to the Associate Dean (PGR), or 
equivalent.  
 
 
Student Support 
When required, a range of support mechanisms may be employed to aid PGR student progress. In 
addition to faculty and departmental support, the University offers a range of student support facilities 
via Strathlife, the Strathclyde Doctoral School, and Strath Union including the Researcher 
Development Programme and Doctoral Researchers Group. Further guidance can be found in the UK 
Quality Code ( Research Degrees) . 
 
Safe360
o 
Safe360° underpins our duty of care and enhances support mechanisms for students and staff, 
integrating national guidance and University policies and procedures.  
 
 
7 This section should be read in conjunction with paragraphs 42 and 87 of the PGR General Academic 
Regulations and paragraphs 195 to 209 of the Code of Practice for PGR Students 
8 Whilst the terminology ‘satisfactory’ is utilised in the Annual Progress Reports, this outcome also refers to 
progress that surpasses satisfactory. 
9 Review Panels should take the maximum period of registration into account when agreeing outcomes and actions. 
These are detailed in Table A (p. 6) of the PGR General Academic Regulations. 
10 The individuals with the right to recommend withdrawal will vary by faculty.

--- PAGE 6 ---

5 
 
Aligned to this, the University has in place a supervisory agreement for postgraduate researchers and 
their supervisors. Within this, all parties recognise the University’s Dignity and Respect Policy, and its 
role in ensuring that every member of the University community is expected to understand, respect and 
behave in accordance with our Strathclyde Community Commitment.  
 
This Policy underpins the University’s approach to supporting effective PGR supervisory relationships. 
 
Relevant parties may seek support for any matters relating to this via the following routes as 
appropriate: 
a.  Report and Support 
b.  Any Dignity and Respect Officer 
c.  Your Progression Chair, Head of Department, or Vice-Dean Research and 
d.  The University Complaints Procedure. 
 
 
Roles and Responsibilities 
The roles and responsibilities of the student, supervisory team, and Faculty/School/Department are 
detailed in the Code of Practice for PGR Students (sections 114 to 121) and the Supervisory 
Agreement. 
 
 
Students on a Student Route Visa 
In instances where a student on a Student Route Visa is required to return to their home country prior 
to completion and submission of their PhD, the Supervisory Team must ensure that the student has 
access to appropriate resources to allow them to complete the programme and is adequately 
supported. The monitoring and review process should continue, as noted above, via electronic means, 
with reference to the Guidance on the Operation of Virtual or Hybrid Oral Examinations. 
 
 
Professional Development 
Ongoing personal and professional development is a core component of PhD study at Strathclyde and 
students, along with their supervisory team, are required to consider the student’s training and 
development to ensure they are supported to meet the requirements of their PhD studies and for their 
future career ambitions.  
 
Students registered on a standard PhD programme must satisfy the requirements of the professional 
development programme specified in the PGR General Academic Regulations (Section 57) before 
submitting their thesis for examination. Any student who successfully completes the associated 
professional development programme element will be eligible to receive the appropriate award at the 
appropriate time. In appropriate cases, Recognition of Prior Learning may be applied.