--- PAGE 1 ---

PROCEDURE FOR THE 
CREATION AND 
AMENDMENT OF PRIZES 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A procedure for 
introducing new 
prizes and amending 
existing ones 
Education 
Enhancement 
Education Strategy 
Committee 
 
2019/20 
onwards 
 Version 1.0 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

Procedure for the Creation & Amendment of Prizes 
1 
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. Faculties award prizes to students based on a wide variety of criteria, ranging from best overall 
marks achieved to contributions to the University’s community. Although prizes frequently 
take the form of a financial gift they should not be confused with endowments (specific funds 
donated to the University by individuals or organisations for particular allocation and managed 
by the Alumni Office).  This Procedure outlines how these prizes are established and 
amended, including approval routes for this activity.  
 
ROLES 
2. The following table sets out a list of roles/groups involved with the management of prizes, and 
their responsibilities: 
 
Role Function Authority 
Board of Study Faculty-level board with responsibility 
for scrutinising all new or amendment 
prize requests and approving these 
before sending to Quality Assurance 
Committee for ratification.  
A decision-making board in terms of 
approving new and amended prizes.  
Boards of Study also receive reports 
from Examination Boards and ratify 
the award of prizes to specific 
students 
Conference & 
Events 
The Team that organises logistical 
arrangements for graduation 
ceremonies 
Receives lists from Boards of Study 
confirming prizes to be offered and 
the recipients of prizes 
Programme 
Director 
Member of academic staff with overall 
responsibility for a course or 
programme 
Responsible for submitting new 
prizes or amendments to existing 
ones to department academic 
committees 
Department/ 
School 
Academic 
Committee 
Department/School level committee 
tasked with considering prize requests 
in the first instance  
A committee that makes 
recommendations to Boards of 
Study 
Quality 
Assurance 
Committee 
University-level committee with 
responsibility for oversight of all 
academic quality assurance matters  
Decision-making committee, ratifying 
decisions of the Boards of Study 
 
REQUESTING NEW PRIZES OR CHANGES TO EXISTING PRIZES 
3. The Programme Director is responsible for completing the Form for the Creation/Amendment 
of Prizes (see Appendix A) below. The Programme Director will be required to provide all the 
information required within the Form, and to ensure that the criteria for being awarded the 
prize is suitably detailed. For instance, stating that the prize will be awarded to the ‘best 
student’ will not suffice. Examples of potential criteria for the award of prizes is set out below: 
 
a. Student obtaining the highest overall weighted average for the overall course; 
b. Student obtaining the highest overall weighted average for the final year of the course; 
c. Student obtaining the highest mark for the dissertation (module XXX);

--- PAGE 3 ---

Procedure for the Creation & Amendment of Prizes 
2 
 
d. Student voted by their cohort to have made the greatest contribution to the course 
community; 
e. Student who has demonstrated the greatest improvement in weighted average from 
first year to final year. 
 
4. The Form requires the Programme Director to confirm arrangements for the eventuality where 
more than one student qualifies for the prize. For example, if the prize is shared, will the 
original financial award be split between the recipients or will each winner receive the original 
amount. 
 
5. Once the Form is complete, the Programme Director submits it to a meeting of the 
Department/School Academic Committee (or equivalent) for scrutiny. If the proposal is 
supported by the Department /School Academic Committee, this is then submitted by the 
Convenor of the Department /School Academic Committee to the relevant Faculty Board of 
Study. 
 
6. The Board of Study will scrutinise the proposal and either approve the creation or amendment 
of the prize, or return the Form to the Department/School for further work. If approved by the 
Board of Study, the Form is then submitted to the Quality Assurance Committee (QAC), via 
the Committee Manager, at least three weeks in advance of the next scheduled meeting of 
QAC. 
 
7. The Committee Manager for QAC will compile a list of all approved prizes for each meeting, 
and these will be ratified by QAC as a standing item on the agenda.  
 
TIMESCALES 
8. In order for prizes to be noted in the graduation programme/schedule, the Conference & 
Events Team will ask faculties t o confirm prizes being awarded in advance of June and 
November graduation ceremonies. If proposals for new prizes have not been approved in 
time to meet these deadlines, they cannot be publicised or awarded. If amendments to prizes 
have not been approved i n time to meet these deadlines the prize must be awarded on the 
original grounds and as publicised.  
 
9. It is good practice to make amendments to prizes before the start of the academic year to 
which cohort they apply so that the prize and associated criteria are transparent to students 
from the outset. 
 
10. Faculties will decide how best to publicise available prizes to students, (usually on a webpage 
listing all prizes or within course handbooks).

--- PAGE 4 ---

Procedure for the Creation & Amendment of Prizes 
3 
 
APPENDIX A 
REQUESTING NEW PRIZES OR CHANGES TO EXISTING PRIZES FORM 
Please complete the form below and submit to the Board of Study for approval.   
NAME OF PROGRAMME 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT/SCHOOL/ FACULTY 
 
 
 
NAME OF AWARD 
 
 
 
TYPE OF PROPOSAL 
Is this a new award or a change to existing award?  
 
 
BRIEF STATEMENT ON CRITERIA OF PRIZE 
Examples of potential criteria for the award of prizes is set out below: 
a. Student obtaining the highest overall weighted average for the overall course;  
b. Student obtaining the highest overall weighted average for the final year of the course;  
c. Student obtaining the highest mark for the dissertation (module XXX); 
d. Student voted by their cohort to have made the greatest contribution to the course / programme  
community; 
e. Student who has demonstrated the greatest improvement in weighted average from first year to 
final year. 
 
WHAT ARRANGEMENTS ARE IN PLACE IF MORE THAN ONE STUDENT QUALIFIES 
FOR PRIZE

--- PAGE 5 ---

Procedure for the Creation & Amendment of Prizes 
4 
 
 
ACADEMIC YEAR AWARD/CHANGES TO AWARD WILL BE INTRODUCED 
 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT/SCHOOL ACADEMIC COMMITTEE ENDORSEMENT  
Please provide the date of Department/School Academic committee endorsement. If this proposal 
is being developed by more than one Department/School then the date of endorsement by both 
committees are required.  
  
 
 
IS THIS AWARD TO BE ANNOUNCED AT GRADUATION? 
Yes or No 
 
GENERAL COMMENTS 
 
 
 
 
 
Board of Study Decision  APPROVE/REJECT    
Date of Board of Study Meeting: DD/MM/YY 
Board of Study Convenor: NAME 
 
If approved, please submit to the Quality Enhancement & Assurance Team email for 
ratification at Quality Assurance Committee: 
educationenhancement-quality@strath.ac.uk