--- PAGE 1 ---

Policy and Procedure for awarding aegrotat and posthumous awards 
Version 
No.  
Description  Author  Approval  Effective Date  
1.0  Procedure for awarding aegrotat 
and posthumous awards 
Assessment and Feedback 
Working Group  
Senate   
  
 January 2020 
1.1 Policy and procedure for 
awarding Aegrotat and 
Posthumous Awards 
Assessment and Feedback 
Working Group  
Senate   
  
From academic 
year 2024-25

--- PAGE 2 ---

Policy and Procedure for awarding aegrotat and posthumous awards  
Contents 
Scope ..................................................................................................................................................................... 1 
Posthumous awards that are not aegrotat awards ................................................................................................ 1 
Aegrotat awards ..................................................................................................................................................... 2 
Taught programme aegrotat awards ...................................................................................................................... 4 
Research degree programme aegrotat awards ..................................................................................................... 5 
Appendix A: Posthumous Award Form .................................................................................................................. 7 
Appendix B: Aegrotat Awards Form ....................................................................................................................... 9

--- PAGE 3 ---

1 
 
 
 
Policy and Procedure for awarding aegrotat and posthumous awards 
Scope     
1. This Procedure is for use in cases where students have passed away (Posthumous) and/or an illness 
or other factor prevents them from completing their studies (Aegrotat), as set out in the 3.3.11 and 
3.3.12 of the University of Strathclyde Ordinances.   
   
2. A posthumous award may be considered where a student has died and has either:   
a) completed the programme of study, including the required assessments, and has satisfied the 
requirements for the award; or 
b) has not completed the programme of study but could be eligible for an aegrotat award.  
 
3. An aegrotat award is an award, without classification, that may be made if a candidate is prevented 
from completing their studies and/or assessments by illness, death, or other cause accepted by the 
Senate. The Senate may award an aegrotat degree where there is sufficient evidence that the 
candidate would have satisfied the standard required for the award, had they been able to continue 
their studies. It is important to note that an aegrotat award can be made posthumously (see paragraph 
5b. below).  
    
4. The following sets out the process for the approval and award of posthumous and aegrotat awards.  
 
Posthumous awards that are not aegrotat awards   
5. Posthumous awards that are not aegrotat awards will be made in the following circumstances:    
a) Where a student has completed and passed all elements of assessment for a programme of study 
(undergraduate and postgraduate taught students); or, 
b) Where a student has submitted a research thesis, undertaken and passed a viva examination prior 
to their death, and made any required corrections to the thesis other than those categorised as 
minor (research degree students).  
   
6. In the case of undergraduate and postgraduate taught students, it is important to note that activity 
relating to the approval of posthumous awards that are not aegrotat awards, is not included within

--- PAGE 4 ---

2 
 
Board of Examiners’ business. Therefore, names of students within this category will not appear in 
Board of Examiners’ paperwork.  
   
7. On receipt of a notification of a student death, and in the circumstances described in paragraphs 5a 
and 5b, the Student Business team notify the Department.  
   
8. For undergraduate and postgraduate taught students, the Department will request that action be taken 
by the Chair of the Board of Examiners to approve the posthumous award and must complete the 
Posthumous Awards Form set out in Appendix A and return this to Student Business for processing.  
   
9. For research degree students, Departments will ensure that any corrections have been completed and 
that the Vice-Dean (Academic) therefore approves the posthumous award.  
  
10. Once Student Business receives confirmation that a posthumous award has been approved, The Head 
of Admissions and Student Lifecycle Services (or nominee) will normally liaise with the student’s 
nominated contact, however in some cases it may be more appropriate for this communication to be 
managed by a Senior Officer of the University.  
 
11. The Head of Admissions and Student Lifecycle Services (or nominee) will offer the student’s nominated 
contact the opportunity to attend a graduation ceremony at the University and for a member of the 
family, or another appropriate individual, to receive the award on behalf of the student. If the preference 
of the nominated contact is not to attend a graduation ceremony of the University, the certificate of 
award shall be posted to the nominated contact. They will discuss with the student’s nominated contact 
whether the student’s name is to be listed in a graduation programme and in any other associated 
publications such as newspapers.  
   
Aegrotat awards   
12. To be considered for an aegrotat award, (posthumously or otherwise), a student must:     
a) be unlikely to return to complete their studies at a later date; and,  
b) have completed a significant body of work. This is necessary to demonstrate that a student would 
have met the appropriate standard for the award had they not been prevented from completing their 
studies. For this reason, aegrotat awards will only be considered in exceptional circumstances.  
   
13. Requests for aegrotat awards will be given careful consideration on behalf of Senate through a review 
by Senate Business Committee, which will consider each request on a case-by-case basis. Normally 
this will be done within the Senate cycle, however cases can exceptionally be considered out of cycle 
under Convener’s Action, provided compelling reason is provided.

--- PAGE 5 ---

3 
 
   
14. In considering the authorisation of an award under these circumstances, Senate Business Committee 
reviews evidence before making a recommendation to Senate, including:     
a) the personal circumstances of the candidate;   
b) where work has been submitted for assessment, the extent to which the candidate has satisfied the 
examiners; and,   
c) any recommendation from the relevant Vice-Dean (Academic) on whether the candidate, had they 
not been so prevented, would have satisfied the examiners in the assessment of their work.  
   
15. Where such an award is considered by Senate due to the death of the candidate, a posthumous 
aegrotat award is only made on the explicit request of the nominated contact of the candidate. In 
exceptional circumstances, such a request may be made by an appropriate person who is not the 
nominated contact (e.g. an employer, friend, or executor).  
   
16. Where such an award is considered by Senate due to any other reason, including illness, the award is 
only made on the explicit request of the candidate, or by their nominated contact if evidence is 
presented to suggest that the candidate cannot reasonably submit such a request. If an award is made, 
the candidate will not be permitted to be considered for the same award on any future occasion. 
   
17. Aegrotat awards do not confer eligibility for professional registration nor exemption from meeting the 
conditions of professional qualifications that might otherwise be granted upon completion of the 
candidate’s programme of study.  
   
18. An aegrotat award may be conferred at a graduation ceremony, and where possible the student will be 
invited to participate in the appropriate graduation. In cases where an award is to be made 
posthumously, the Head of Admissions and Student Lifecycle Services (or nominee) will liaise with the 
nominated contact to confirm conferment arrangements, as set out in paragraph 12 above.  
   
19. The two sections below (Taught Programme Aegrotat Awards and Research Degree Programme 
Aegrotat Awards) set out the process for making a request to Senate for the award of an aegrotat 
degree (posthumously or not), for taught programmes (undergraduate and postgraduate taught) and 
for research degree programmes. It should be noted that all students are reminded of the requirement 
to submit Personal Circumstances in respect to any medical illness that affects their studies, and in line 
with the University’s Personal Circumstances and Academic Appeals Procedure.

--- PAGE 6 ---

4 
 
Taught programme aegrotat awards     
21. In cases where an aegrotat award has been requested by a student or their nominated contact, the 
Faculty is responsible for undertaking an initial assessment to consider whether there is a sufficient 
quantity of material to make this proposal to the Board of Examiners (for taught programmes).  
   
22. The Faculty should then contact the Senate Office for an initial discussion to determine whether the 
proposed aegrotat award might be allowed under Ordinance 3.1.12 and this Policy & Procedure, subject 
to Senate approval.  
   
23. Following advice from the Senate Office and if progressing the proposal, the Faculty should review the 
student’s transcript to consider whether a proposal can be made for the award of the original 
programme of study. Where the Faculty wishes to make a proposal for the award of the original 
programme of study, a robust, evidence-based case is produced for consideration by the Board of 
Examiners, detailing why the award of the original programme of study should be made. It is important 
that consideration is given to whether there is a strong enough case to support the award of an aegrotat 
degree. In cases where uncertainty is present and students have accumulated credit for an alternative 
exit award, serious thought should be given to whether it would be more appropriate to award the exit 
qualification.  
   
24. The aegrotat case must be submitted to the Board of Examiners in the Aegrotat Awards Form set out in 
Appendix B below. As stated in paragraph 14 above, in cases where expediency is required, the 
Examination Board can consider cases remotely before submitting the proposal to Senate for approval 
with the support of the Vice-Dean (Academic).  
   
25. When considering aegrotat awards, Board of Examiners should come to an agreement on each 
candidate presented to it for consideration and retain records of any deliberations. All decisions of the 
Board of Examiners to confer awards are accompanied by the signatures of the Chair of the Board.  
   
26. Board of Examiners choose either to recommend to Senate to:     
a) award an aegrotat award without a classification, as specified in Ordnance 3.3.12;   
b) award an alternative exit award; 
c) agree not to make the award; or, 
d) cases where there is potential for a student to return to their studies in the future, defer a decision 
on the outcome of requiring the student to undertake further work to demonstrate that they have met 
the learning outcomes of the programme.  
   
27. In exceptional circumstances, should the Board of Examiners fail to agree on a recommended outcome 
for an individual candidate, it may submit a report to the Vice-Dean (Academic). The report provides a

--- PAGE 7 ---

5 
 
summary of the reasons for being unable to agree on an outcome and a recommendation agreed by the 
majority of the examiners. On receipt of a report, the Vice-Dean (Academic) consults with at least two 
other members of the academic staff of the Faculty who are not members of the Board of Examiners 
and either accepts the recommendation of the majority of the examiners, or otherwise refers the case to 
a newly constituted Board of Examiners.  
   
28. Once the outcome of the Board of Examiners is known and has the support of the Vice Dean 
(Academic), a proposal is submitted to the Senate Office by the Faculty for approval.  
   
29. Should the Senate, (following review by the Senate Business Committee), decide not to make a 
discretionary aegrotat award, there are no grounds for appeal.  
   
30. Where an aegrotat award is made, it will be made clear on all documentation that the degree has been 
awarded as an aegrotat award.  
   
Research degree programme aegrotat awards   
31. In cases where an aegrotat award has been requested by a student or their nominated contact, the 
Faculty is responsible for undertaking an initial assessment to consider whether there is a sufficient 
quantity of material to make this proposal to the internal and external examiners.  
   
32. The Faculty should then contact the Senate Office for an initial discussion to determine whether the 
proposed aegrotat award might be allowed under Ordinance 3.1.11 and this Policy & Procedure, subject 
to Senate approval.  
   
33. It should be noted that where a thesis has not been formally submitted for examination, aegrotat awards 
are only made in exceptional cases, based on robust evidence, (provided by the Faculty), 
demonstrating that the student was close to submitting a well-developed thesis of the appropriate 
quality.  
   
34. If a decision is made to pursue an aegrotat award, the Faculty should consider the student’s progress 
towards a full thesis, which will include evaluating draft thesis chapters, any peer reviewed publications 
or conference speaking engagements, progress reports, data collection by the student and any other 
related documentation which was to have been incorporated within the thesis. Additionally, the 
supervisory team are permitted to supply additional information e.g. examples of work undertaken, and 
training attended.

--- PAGE 8 ---

6 
 
35. In cases where a thesis has not been examined, the evidence outlined in paragraph 31 should be 
presented to the internal and external examiners for assessment, (see the Policy & Code of Practice for 
Postgraduate Research Study for details of examining requirements), without a viva examination. In 
place of the viva, the Examiners will be permitted to request additional information and/or ask questions 
of the supervisory team, before making a recommendation on the submitted work. Once this 
assessment process has concluded, a recommendation should be made and submitted to the Senate 
Office, with support of the Vice-Dean (Academic).  
   
36. In cases where a student has already formally submitted a thesis, was examined orally, and was 
required to undertake significant or major corrections, the examiners should make a recommendation to 
Senate, with the support of the Vice-Dean (Academic). The examiners may make a recommendation for 
the award of an aegrotat research degree if it is considered that a student’s ongoing ill-health would 
preclude them from making the final submission of the thesis, undertaking the viva, making minor 
modifications to the thesis or resubmitting the thesis, or, if the student has reached the maximum period 
of registration and would be unable to complete the degree owing to serious ill health.   
   
37. After following the various processes set out in paragraphs 32, 33 and 34 above, Examiners may make 
one of the following recommendations to Senate:    
a) Posthumous or aegrotat award of the aimed research degree;   
b) Posthumous or aegrotat exit award of an alternative award e.g. MPhil, MRes, MA, PGCert; or, 
c) Agree not to make an award.  
   
38. All recommendations to Senate must be submitted to the Senate Office on the Aegrotat Awards Form in 
Appendix B, and must be accompanied by appropriate supporting evidence, including medical 
evidence. All signatures required in the Form (with the exception of Senate Convenor) must be collected 
before submission to the Senate Office. Any request for an aegrotat award to be made should be 
submitted within 10 working days of the notification of the Examiners’ decision.  
   
39. Where an aegrotat award is made, it will be made clear on all documentation that the degree has been 
awarded as an aegrotat award and an explanatory note will be added to the thesis specifying that the 
nature of the award means that, as a result, some errors might exist in the thesis.  
 
END

--- PAGE 9 ---

7 
 
Appendix A: Posthumous Award Form   
   
Posthumous Award Form   
   
This pro-forma is to be completed where Examiners or a Board of Examiners recommend a 
Posthumous award. (Please refer to the guidance in the Procedure for Aegrotat & Posthumous 
Awards for further information).  
   
To be completed by the Department   
 
1. Student Details     
Student Name      
Student Registration Number      
Programme of Study  
Mode of Study (i.e. Full-time/Part-time)  
Year of Study (i.e. Year 1)    
Date of Death (or notification of death)      
   
 
2. Degree Award Details     
Proposed Qualification to be Awarded 
(Describe full award title)    
   
 
e.g. Postgraduate Diploma in Computational Science   
Date of Next Scheduled Board of Examiners (for 
taught programmes) or date of Examiners meeting 
(for research programmes)   
DD/MM/YYYY

--- PAGE 10 ---

8 
 
 
3. Nominated Contact’s Details    
Name:    
Address:    
 
Authorisation   
Signed..............................................................................   Date...................................   
(Chair of Board of Examiners (taught programmes) or Convenor of Examiners (research programmes)   
   
Please return completed form with all signatures to the relevant contact in Student Business 
https://www.strath.ac.uk/studentlifecycle/contactus/

--- PAGE 11 ---

9 
 
 
Appendix B: Aegrotat Awards Form     
   
Aegrotat Awards Form   
   
This pro-forma is to be completed where Examiners or a Board of Examiners recommend an  
Aegrotat award. (Please refer to the guidance in the Policy & Procedure for Aegrotat & Posthumous 
Awards for further information).  
   
1. Is the aegrotat award proposed to be conferred posthumously (please highlight yes or no)?   
Yes   Please complete all sections of this form other than section 5   
No   Please complete all sections of this form   
   
2. Student Details     
Student Name      
Student Registration Number      
Programme of Study   
Mode of Study (i.e. full-time)   
Year of Study (i.e. Year 1)  
   
3. Degree Award Details     
      Proposed Qualification to be Awarded 
      (describe full award title)   
  
e.g. Postgraduate Diploma in Computational Science   
Date of Next Scheduled Board of Examiners (for 
taught programmes) or date of Examiners meeting 
(for research programmes)   
DD/MM/YYYY

--- PAGE 12 ---

10 
 
4. Nominated Contact’s Details    
Name:    
Address:    
   
 
5. Outline why an aegrotat award is being sought (only to be completed in cases where the award will not be made 
posthumously)   
Please outline why it is that the student will not be able to complete their studies at the University in the future.  
   
   
  
6. Supporting Case   
Please provide a robust case as to why an aegrotat award should be considered. You should append supporting 
materials to this form, such as transcripts, supporting statements from Programme Directors and/or supervisors, any 
minutes from Board of Examiners meetings, any Examiners reports (in the case of research students), information on 
any civic activities undertaken by the student during their studies to the benefit of the community, other students or 
the University (volunteering, acting as module reps et c), evidence of publication or conference presentations 
(particularly in the case of research students). All this evidence must be presented to support the Faculty’s assertion 
that the student would have successfully passed their programme of study had they been able to continue.  
   
   
 
Authorisation   
Signed..............................................................................   Date...................................   
(Chair of Board of Examiners (taught programmes) or Convenor of Examiners (research programmes)   
   
Signed............................................................................... Date...................................   
(Vice Dean Academic, Faculty)   
   
Signed:…………………………..   Date……………………………

--- PAGE 13 ---

11 
 
(Convener, Senate)    
Please return completed form with all signatures, other than Senate Convener, to the Senate 
Office: educationenhancement-quality@strath.ac.uk