--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
 
 
  
 
 
 
PROCEDURE FOR MARKERS 
AND BOARDS OF EXAMINERS IN 
THE EVENT OF WIDESPREAD, 
SIGNIFICANT DISRUPTION 
 
 
      Version 3.0 
 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 Procedure for BoE & 
Markers in Event of 
Disruption 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate AY 2018/19 
 
1.1 Minor refresh of document Education 
Enhancement 
Senate May 2020 
2 Updated version to take 
into account disruption 
caused by Covid-19 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate April 2021 
2.1 Updated version to take 
into account continuing 
disuprtion caused by 
Covid-19 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate May 2022 
3 Revisions to make the 
Procedure and appended 
Guidance a standing 
document applicable to 
various types of disruption 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate April 2023

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS ....................................................................................................... 2 
PROCEDURE ....................................................................................................................... 4 
INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................... 4 
CONTEXT ......................................................................................................................... 4 
DECISION MAKING .......................................................................................................... 6 
ADJUSTMENTS TO MODULES ........................................................................................ 8 
CHANGES TO THE PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES PROCEDURE ............................... 8 
SUPPORT FOR STUDENT WELLBEING ......................................................................... 9 
FLEXIBILITY FOR EXTENSION REQUESTS ................................................................... 9 
PROTECTING ACADEMIC STANDARDS ........................................................................ 9 
GENERAL SUMMARY GUIDANCE ................................................................................ 10 
APPENDIX A – GUIDANCE FOR BOARDS OF EXAMINERS ........................................... 11 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES .................................................................................................  11 
GUIDANCE FOR HEADS OF SCHOOLS/DEPARTMENTS RE BOARDS OF 
EXAMINERS ................................................................................................................... 12 
GENERAL GUIDANCE/FAQS FOR BOARDS OF EXAMINERS IN THE EVENT OF 
WIDESPREAD, SIGNIFICANT DISRUPTION .................................................................  13 
Board of Examiners Meetings .................................................................................................. 13 
Board of Examiners Quorum .................................................................................................... 13 
Convenors Experiencing Challenges Attending a Board of Examiners Meeting ............. 14 
External Examiner Unable to Attend a Board of Examiners Meeting ................................ 14 
External Examiner Resignation Due to Industrial Action ..................................................... 15 
Ensuring Rigour of Marking ...................................................................................................... 16 
Managing Cases Where Only Partial Assessment Profiles Are Available ........................ 16 
Minimum Level of Credit Required for a Student to Progress ............................................. 17 
Impact on the Award of Academic Compensation if Not All Marks Are Available ............ 17 
Handling Personal Circumstances .......................................................................................... 17 
Information Recorded by Boards of Examiners ..................................................................... 18

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
Managing Variations Within Student Cohorts ........................................................................ 18 
Challenges in Board of Examiner Judgements with Missing Results ................................ 19 
Relaying Board of Examiner Decisions to Student Lifecycle Services .............................. 19 
Reconvening Boards of Examiners Once More Marks are Available ................................ 19 
GUIDANCE FOR FINAL HONOURS BOARDS ............................................................... 19 
External Examiner Participation ............................................................................................... 19 
Classifying Degrees With Missing Results ............................................................................. 20 
Student Graduation Without Confirmed Degree Classification ........................................... 20 
Perceptions of a Devaluation of the University’s Degrees ................................................... 20 
GUIDANCE FOR UNDERGRADUATE YEAR 1,2 & 3 PROGRESSION BOARDS .......... 20 
Progressing Students in Periods of Disruption ...................................................................... 20 
GUIDANCE FOR PGT BOARDS OF EXAMINERS ......................................................... 21 
Awarding Merits or Distinctions ................................................................................................ 21 
Motivational Merits and Distinctions ........................................................................................ 21 
GUIDANCE FOR PGR EXAMINERS .............................................................................. 21 
Examining Committee (Viva Voce or Orals) Schedules ....................................................... 21 
PGR Examining Committee Quorum ...................................................................................... 21 
Examining Conveners/Internal Examiners of Examining Committees ............................... 22 
APPENDIX B – ENHANCED SUPPORT FOR STUDENTS: EXAMPLE FROM 
DISRUPTION CAUSED BY COVID-19 PANDEMIC ........................................................... 23

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
 
PROCEDURE 
INTRODUCTION 
1. This Procedure is designed to be utilised during periods of significant disruption that 
have a widespread impact across the University. Disruption affecting individual 
students is managed via personal circumstances. Disruption involving part of a cohort 
of students is managed locally by faculties, under the scrutiny of Executive Deans and 
Vice Deans, with actions reported to Faculty Academic Committees.  
 
2. Widespread, significant disruption may arise from, but is not limited to, the following: 
 
a. UK and Scottish Government restrictions, such as occurred during the Covid-
19 pandemic; 
b. Widespread illness throughout the University community, for example an 
outbreak of influenza; 
c. A critical incident, for example a terrorist attack that limits access to campus 
and/or facilities; 
d. Extreme weather conditions, limiting access to campus and/or facilities; 
e. Industrial action undertaken in relation to the University, and/or more widely, 
such as to transport links; 
f. Widespread energy restrictions or blackouts. 
 
3. This Procedure details practice and guidance for markers, (those assessing work and/or 
acting as Internal Examiners), at Module and Programme level and for members, 
Conveners and Managers of Boards of Examiners. The 
University Guidance for Boards 
of Examiners in the Event of Widespread Disruption in Appendix A also provides useful 
information for those managing and taking part in Boards of Examiners and Examination 
Committee meetings. 
 
4. This Procedure is intended for use where challenges have affected students at a cohort 
level, which trigger a major disruption to learning, teaching and/or assessment.  
 
5. This Procedure applies to all taught programmes of study at undergraduate and 
postgraduate level. It also applies for resit assessment periods. 
CONTEXT 
6. During periods of widespread, significant disruption, the University Executive Team 
carefully monitors the impact of this, across Schools, Departments and Faculties and 
within the student community. Strathclyde commits to always placing its students at the 
forefront of decision-making and planning, and will always seek to deliver the best 
possible learning and student experience within any rapidly changing external 
environment, dealing with any constraints that emerge. At all times the health, safety and 
wellbeing of the whole University community is of paramount importance to the 
University.  
 
7. During any period of widespread, significant disruption, the University will seek to ensure 
that no students are academically disadvantaged. In previous periods of widespread,

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
 
significant disruption, such as during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020/21 and 2021/22 for 
example, the University took a supportive and flexible approach in managing situations 
where students were finding it challenging to engage with their studies due to personal 
circumstances arising through the pandemic. 
 
8. In the event of any widespread, significant disruption, the University will develop 
guidance for staff and students, as demonstrated during the Covid-19 pandemic. These 
documents will focus on planning for learning and teaching and adjusting assessment 
requirements. The utilisation of such policies during a period of widespread, significant 
disruption, will be approved by Senate. A standing set of 
Guidelines to Support the 
Learning and Teaching of Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught Students During 
Periods of Disruption o ffers guidance to staff to enable planning and to ensure enhanced 
support for students during such periods of disruption. Supplementary guidance may be 
produced by the University during particular periods of widespread, significant disruption, 
to further support the student experience.  
 
9. Markers and Boards of Examiners play a crucial role in ensuring appropriate outcomes 
for students, whilst upholding academic standards. They are vital in ensuring that 
students’ circumstances are considered, and any trends across modules are identified, 
to ensure that appropriate progress and outcome decisions are made, and that academic 
standards continue to be upheld. 
 
10. Faculties have arrangements in place for ensuring that students’ personal circumstances 
are considered ahead of Boards of Examiners meeting. In cases of widespread, 
significant disruption it is important that Boards of Examiners are empowered to make 
decisions regarding student progression and outcomes within a sympathetic framework, 
considering personal circumstances and other circumstances outwith students’ control, 
such as technical challenges and restricted access to Library resources, which may have 
adversely impacted on assessment activities. In such cases, Senate will indicate to 
Conveners of Boards of Examiners that such an approach should be taken. 
 
11. Through this Procedure, the University seeks to facilitate decisions which are supportive 
and student-centred, within our wider commitment to support the student experience. 
Further, the University recognises the need to ensure consistency where possible and to 
establish a position of managed difference where variations need to apply, particularly in 
respect of awards where professional accreditation and recognition are core. 
 
12. On behalf of the Board of Study, the Executive Dean and Vice Dean (Academic) of each 
faculty, working with Programme Teams, have oversight to ensure marking practices are 
quality-assured in line with University policy and procedures; to ensure equity in Board of 
Examiners processes and to maintain standards while allowing flexibility to support the 
particular circumstances of each discipline area at the programme level. Module and 
programme teams will consider all the information and wider circumstances in which 
assessments were undertaken and be supported by University guidance on how to 
reflect this in determining module and programme results. Collectively, this information 
will be central to the decision making of Boards of Examiners. 
 
13. This Procedure is intended to create an overarching framework within which Faculty 
Boards of Study, through Boards of Examiners can, with the authority of University 
Senate, make progression decisions and approve awards. This formal Procedure has

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
been produced following instruction from the Executive Team to support the awarding of 
degrees without conventional formally timetabled on campus final assessment, under the 
auspices of Ordinance 3.3
 and in line with our academic regulations.  
 
14. Section 3.3 of the Ordinances of the University of Strathclyde outlines the Conditions of 
Award for the qualification for admission to a Degree of the University. Section 3.3.3 
articulates the role of Boards of Study and Senate in approving and authorising awards 
without final examination in exceptional circumstances. 
 
DECISION MAKING 
15. This Procedure provides the flexibility for Boards of Examiners to draw on information 
from previous years, particularly in making award decisions. It provides a framework 
which is intended to provide consistency in student experience, while recognising the 
need for variation, in particular where professional accreditation and recognition are 
core. Module and programme teams will consider all the information and wider 
circumstances within which assessments were undertaken and be supported by 
University guidance on how to reflect this within decision-making on module and 
programme results. Collectively, this information will be central to the decision making of 
Boards of Examiners. This will support transparent decision making and communication 
with students. 
 
16. In exceptional cases where Boards of Examiners and Boards of Study cannot reach 
consensus, Senate Business Committee, in consultation with the respective Faculty, will 
discuss and agree how particular cases may be resolved. 
 
17. The process for passing such cases to the Senate Business Committee is that the 
Convener of the Board of Examiners writes to the Vice-Dean (Academic) of the Faculty 
concerned, to inform them that a decision could not be made by the Board of Examiners. 
The Convener will need to provide the Vice-Dean (Academic) with the following 
documentation: 
 
a. The student mark profile; 
b. Information on any personal circumstances submitted by the student, either 
via Pegasus or directly to the Programme Team;  
c. Confirmation of arrangements put in place at programme and module level in 
response to any widespread, significant disruption as deemed appropriate, 
particularly in relation to assessment arrangements; 
d. The decisions taken by the Board of Examiners in relation to the remainder of 
the cohort; 
e. An overview of the decisions taken in previous academic years for recent 
programme cohorts, highlighting any profiles that bear a resemblance to that 
of the student being considered, and incorporating detail on any wide-spread 
disruption experienced during respective academic sessions; 
f. A detailed record of Board of Examiners discussions regarding the student; 
g. A summary as to why the Board of Examiners was not able to reach a 
consensus for the student. 
 
18. In conjunction with the Executive Dean, the Vice-Dean (Academic) will review the 
information and will convene the Board of Study, usually via correspondence, to discuss

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
 
whether it is necessary for Senate Business Committee to consider this case or whether 
the Board of Examiners should meet again to re-evaluate its position. 
 
19. In cases where the Board of Study decides to escalate the matter to Senate Business 
Committee for a final decision, they should write a brief overview detailing why they 
support the decision to escalate to Senate Business Committee and set out any actions 
they have taken with the Board of Examiners before making this decision. They should 
also inform the student, in writing, of the delay to the decision being taken and confirm 
expected timescales in relation to a decision being communicated, in liaison with the 
Senate Business Committee Manager. 
 
20. All documentation should be submitted to the Quality Enhancement & Assurance Team
 
who will liaise with the Convener of Senate Business Committee on each case. 
Following consideration of a case by Senate Business Committee or the Convener, the 
Committee Manager will inform the Vice-Dean (Academic) of the outcome. The Vice-
Dean (Academic) is subsequently responsible for liaising with the Programme Team and 
Student Lifecycle Services to ensure that the decision is communicated to the student. 
 
21. The University recognises that each student is an individual with their own specific 
circumstances and that widespread, significant disruption will impact different 
communities of students in differing ways. The University’s approach to supporting 
student progression and outcomes takes account of these differing factors and, in the 
event of widespread, significant disruption, guidance on managing student progression 
will build on the foundations of the supportive and sympathetic approach taken during 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
22. During periods of widespread, significant disruption, and subject to confirmation from the 
University’s Senate of the following approach, Boards may have additional discretion in 
considering the following: 
 
a. The number of credits which can be compensated
1; 
b. The threshold for which compensation can be considered;  
c. The discretion to reduce the Credit Weighted Average (CWA) threshold for 
compensation to 40% for undergraduate students and 50% for postgraduate 
and level 5 students, where this is in the best interests of the student and in 
alignment with Faculty-specific guidance relevant to the subject;  
d. Where appropriate, the number of credits that can be carried forward for 
progression
2.   
 
23. In addition to the supportive measures above, in periods of widespread disruption, 
Boards will continue to exercise discretion that is conventionally available and informed 
                                                           
1 This applies to undergraduate, up to and including Level 5, and postgraduate study. The University’s  Policy on 
Compensation Scheme states that an undergraduate student who has achieved a credit weighted average of at least 45% but 
has failed one or more modules shall be awarded a Pass by Compensation in classes totalling up to 20 credits where the 
marks obtained are in the 30%-39% range. For postgraduate students the policy states, a postgraduate student who has 
achieved a credit weighted average of at least 55% but has failed one or more modules shall be awarded a ‘Pass by 
Compensation’ in modules totalling up to 20 credits where the marks obtained are in the 40-49% range.   
 
2 Decisions to allow students to carry additional credits will be communicated such that students are clear of the risks and 
implications of proceeding pending the outcome of outstanding results or resits.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
by the consideration of individual Personal Circumstances in the progression or award 
decisions for each student. Where appropriate, this includes the discretion to exclude 
modules from the calculation of a CWA, which inform progression and award decisions. 
The Board may also decide to discount a student’s attempt, where it is appropriate and 
in the best interest of the student to do so
3. Together, all of these measures reflect a 
sympathetic and supportive approach that is informed by the Faculty/Programme’s 
Personal Circumstances Board.  
 
24. In cases where widespread, significant disruption is known about ahead of a Formal 
Assessment Period, Departments and Schools will be asked to contact their students to 
ensure that, where appropriate, all personal circumstances records are up to date and 
logged in their Pegasus record.  
 
25. With the student experience at the heart of the University’s approach to learning and 
teaching and assessment activities, Strathclyde will ensure that mechanisms are put in 
place to further support students in their studies during periods of widespread, significant 
disruption, an example overview of which can be seen in the diagram in Appendix B
. 
 
ADJUSTMENTS TO MODULES 
26. In periods of widespread, significant disruption, the University recognises that the mode 
of delivery of planned learning and teaching activities may need to be altered, which may 
include a shift in the balance of online and on-campus activity. During the Covid-19 
pandemic, substantial guidance and training was provided to Programme Teams and 
Module Leaders on how to utilise learning technologies to deliver learning and teaching 
activities, alongside consideration of how to introduce alternative forms of assessment. 
In the event of any future widespread, significant disruption requiring a pivot to blended 
or fully online learning, updated guidance and training will be provided as required. 
 
27. In the event of widespread, significant disruption, Programme Teams will make 
significant efforts to ensure that teaching, learning and assessment continue to ensure 
all our students are able to achieve the required learning outcomes and qualifications in 
line with original, planned timescales.  All amendments to learning, teaching and 
assessment plans and procedures are fully reviewed prior to formal approval to assure 
academic quality and standards; including professional and accrediting body 
requirements. This process ensures that Programme Teams have detailed oversight of 
module activities and assessment which, when considered along with any Personal 
Circumstances, ensure appropriate evidence is available to support decision making by 
Boards of Examiners.   
CHANGES TO THE PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES PROCEDURE 
28. In periods of widespread, significant disruption, the University recognises the potential 
impact on students which, in some cases, may adversely impact mental health and 
general wellbeing.  
 
                                                           
3 An attempt discount allows a future attempt at the module, as a first attempt, without a fail appearing on the academic 
transcript for the discounted attempt. The exception to this case is where a student would otherwise receive a compensated 
pass. In this case the student will be awarded the compensated pass and will retain the option to have this removed and an 
Attempt Discount applied.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 
 
29. To support students experiencing specific individual challenges during periods of 
significant, widespread disruption, the University reviews its requirements for logging 
personal circumstances and for providing medical evidence, and updates the Personal 
Circumstances web page with this information. In instances where changes are made to 
the personal circumstances requirements, additional guidance will be issued to staff and 
students. 
 
SUPPORT FOR STUDENT WELLBEING 
30. The University has a focus on student and staff wellbeing, signposting support and 
encouraging students to make use of the specialist support services available. Together 
with appropriate use of the Personal Circumstances Procedure, a range of services are 
in place to support students to achieve their academic potential, supported by 
appropriate adjustments where required. The University’s Disability & Wellbeing Services
 
has a range of advisers with specialist expertise in disability, health, mental health, 
wellbeing and counselling. They offer a broad range of support to students with any 
disability, mental health and wellbeing related needs and the services are available to all 
students.  
 
FLEXIBILITY FOR EXTENSION REQUESTS 
31. During periods of widespread, significant disruption, Schools and Departments are 
required to put in place mechanisms for considering requests for extensions to 
assessment deadlines in a fair and sympathetic manner. Staff fully appreciate that there 
are various ways in which any such disruption may impact on students’ time and their 
study environment, which in turn could affect their ability to meet set assessment 
deadlines.  
 
32. In instances where students are experiencing challenges due to widespread, significant 
disruption that may impact on their ability to meet assessment deadlines, they will be 
advised to submit an extension request via Myplace in line with the 
Policy and Procedure 
on Extensions to Coursework Submission. At the direction of Senate or the Executive 
Team, Extension Approvers are expected to consider such individual requests 
sympathetically.  
 
PROTECTING ACADEMIC STANDARDS 
33. Every student journey at the University of Strathclyde is unique and we have a 
fundamental responsibility to make certain that we uphold our academic standards and 
the quality of our award, in turn ensuring the value of the degree that students are 
awarded upon graduating.  
 
34. The University reports annually on its academic provision to the 
Scottish Funding 
Council and is reviewed on a cyclical basis by the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher 
Education Scotland. These processes are designed to scrutinise the University’s 
academic provision for students and to verify that the degrees we are awarding are of an 
appropriate academic standard. The University also has well established internal review 
processes to confirm that learning and teaching standards are in line with those set out 
in external frameworks, benchmarks, and professional body requirements.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10 
 
35. In response to widespread, significant disruption, the University will carefully adapt and 
evolve its quality assurance processes to ensure that students are not academically 
disadvantaged by circumstances that are beyond their control, while maintaining 
appropriate quality and standards of its academic provision.  
 
GENERAL SUMMARY GUIDANCE 
36. Decisions taken by Boards of Examiners will be based on academic judgement and 
therefore not subject to appeal on these grounds, in line with the 
Personal 
Circumstances & Academic Appeals Procedure.  
 
37. Further Guidance, both broad in scope and specific to level of study, is set out below in 
Appendix A: Guidance for Boards of Examiners
.  
 
38. An illustrative example of enhanced support put in place to support students during the 
widespread, significant disruption of the Covid-19 pandemic is provided in Appendix B
.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11 
 
APPENDIX A – GUIDANCE FOR BOARDS OF EXAMINERS 
 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES 
39. This document contains guidance for all staff and external examiners involved in Boards 
of Examiners activities during periods of widespread, significant disruption. 
 
40. As much information as possible must be provided to the Boards of Examiners on any 
circumstances that students have made them aware of (i.e. connectivity problems, lack 
of access to equipment/materials, etc.). 
 
41. Progression and award decisions taken by the Board of Examiners will be informed by 
the review of assessment requirements undertaken by the Programme Leader, and 
communicated to students. 
 
42. Where a decision is taken at a module-level to provide a grade based on incomplete 
information, the Board of Examiners should record this, indicating the information that 
was considered in reaching the grade. 
 
43. Where a progression or award decision is taken by the Board of Examiners based on 
incomplete information, the Board must record this, indicating the information and 
considerations that determined the award made. 
 
44. Boards of Examiners will consider the balance of assessment undertaken to date. 
 
45. Boards of Examiners will be able to review student performance on the basis of existing 
information including:  
 
a. Examination marks to date;  
b. Coursework;  
c. Tutorials;  
d. Labs;  
e. Projects;  
f. Dissertations, including where the original activity is not fully completed.  
 
46. Boards of Examiners will consider personal circumstances, including the special 
circumstances of students whose home environment may adversely impact on their 
ability to engage in assessment activities. 
 
47. These Guidelines allow the University to make evidence-based decisions, which is 
consistent with our academic regulations and maintains the academic standards, rigour 
and value of our degrees. In doing this, the University will make decisions based on all 
the evidence available and in students’ best interests, to confirm academic progression 
or in support of the conferment of awards, to facilitate transition to future employment 
and/or further study within the originally intended timescales.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12 
 
  
GUIDANCE FOR HEADS OF SCHOOLS/DEPARTMENTS RE BOARDS OF EXAMINERS 
48. In the event of widespread, significant disruption to study, the University's position is that 
every effort will be made to ensure any teaching, assessment or examination activities 
proceed as normal, with students being able to progress to the next stage of their 
programme, or, being awarded their degrees, as appropriate. In such circumstances the 
normal position is that the majority of modules are unaffected, and all assessments and 
examinations proceed as normal. 
 
49. This Guidance to Boards of Examiners is provided to minimise the adverse impact to 
students of disruption to study without compromising academic standards. It should be 
acknowledged that there may be some disruption where there is a significant and 
widespread impact on the delivery of modules, and on the ability of students to 
undertake scheduled assessments and examinations, either through missed 
lectures/tutorials, through illness/self-isolation or in response to government advice to 
universities. 
 
50. In previous periods of widespread, significant disruption, Senate has approved the 
following approaches, focused on further student support mechanisms, namely: 
 
a. Adjustments to modules;  
b. Changes to the Personal Circumstances Procedure
;  
c. Support for student wellbeing;  
d. Flexibility for extension requests;  
e. Formal assessment adjustments;  
f. Guidance for staff.  
 
51. Where Boards of Examiners cannot meet in person during periods of widespread, 
significant disruption, Departments, Schools and Faculties will arrange for Boards of 
Examiners to take place online. Where graduation ceremonies are unable to take place 
in person, the University will facilitate graduations in absentia. Degree certificates will be 
made available electronically to students.    
 
52. This contingency planning is in place to provide guidance on expectations, supporting 
consistency of practice and maintaining the academic standards of the University in 
instances where significant disruption occurs.  
 
53. This guidance should be read in conjunction with the 
Formal Assessment Period: 
Guidance in the Event of Disruption do cument . In the event of significant and widespread 
disruption to study and assessment, the following principles should be considered:  
 
a. Faculties, Departments and Schools are encouraged to adopt consistent guiding 
principles in dealing with students in assessing taught elements of 
undergraduate and postgraduate degrees. In the aforementioned Formal 
Assessment Period: Guidance in the Event of Disruption document, the 
University has set out guiding principles for managing alternative assessments 
and examples of ways in which this can be achieved; 
b. Actions should be supportive of students and a reasonable and sensible 
approach to difficult circumstances arising from disruptions should apply;

--- PAGE 13 ---

13 
 
c. Boards of Examiners may need to be accepting of some marks and assessment 
results being returned and available later than normal; in particular, in instances 
where assessment tasks and submissions have been amended, extended or 
rescheduled; 
d. Any penalties and actions should be applied fairly for students and not 
adversely impact on progression or award where the work is of a pass standard;  
e. Departments and Schools should make decisions based on the guidelines and 
on the basis of overall prior attainment of students to date;  
f. Where required, priority will be given to supporting Final Year and Postgraduate 
students where assessments lead to award outcomes. This should be prioritised 
in decision making by Boards of Examiners’;  
g. Where possible and appropriate, it is anticipated that this Guidance will be 
applied consistently across and within Faculties; particularly where students are 
on joint programmes and where assessment is outwith their “home” 
Department/School.  
 
54. The University’s approach to disruption is to minimise the impact on students, without 
compromising academic standards. Supplementary guidance documentation may be 
produced for Boards of Examiners and Markers, depending on the circumstances. This 
Guidance should be read in the light of overarching principles where the academic 
judgement of the Board of Examiners will remain paramount, and the academic 
standards of the University will be maintained.  
 
GENERAL GUIDANCE/FAQS FOR BOARDS OF EXAMINERS IN THE EVENT OF 
WIDESPREAD, SIGNIFICANT DISRUPTION  
Board of Examiners Meetings 
55. In the event of widespread, significant disruption, Boards of Examiners meetings should 
take place in accordance with the current schedule. It may be that it is necessary to hold 
meetings with a core group of members via video link, or alternatively to hold meetings 
via correspondence. Even if the outcome of the meeting is that there is insufficient or 
incomplete information available for the Board to take any decisions, it is important 
Boards meet as scheduled as far as possible. Boards may find there is more information 
available than they expect, allowing them to finalise decisions for many students. Boards 
will be expected to take any decisions that can be made, as soon as they can.  
 
56. In cases of severe and extraordinary disruption, the Convener of the Board of 
Examiners, (or a senior internal examiner as designated by the Head of 
Department/School), may be given delegated approval from Senate to make decisions 
on behalf of the Board, which would be recorded and reported to Senate by the Faculty 
Vice-Dean (Academic) for the Faculty Board of Study. Conveners who find themselves in 
this position are encouraged to seek advice from Faculty Offices, Vice-Deans 
(Academic) from within or outwith their faculties, Deputy Associate Principals and the 
Director of Education Enhancement or nominee.  
Board of Examiners Quorum 
57. Boards of Study are responsible for the establishment of Boards of Examiners in 
accordance with the University’s Regulations. The constitution and operational 
procedures for General Boards of Examiners are determined locally in accordance with 
University Regulation 1.10
, with Quality Assurance Committee delegating authority to

--- PAGE 14 ---

14 
 
Heads of Department/Schools for these local determinations. The rule of thumb for 
determining whether a meeting is quorate (e.g. Court, Senate, Boards of Study and 
University Committees of Senate) would normally be if a minimum of one third of the 
membership were present. Although there is no published convention for progression 
Boards of Examiners, there is an expectation that Boards should comprise a Convener, 
Minute Secretary and at least one internal examiner. 
 
58. For Graduate Diplomas and other programmes requiring Graduate Entry and for 
Postgraduate Awards by Instruction, the Boards of Examiners shall consist of not less 
than four persons, including an External Examiner and academic staff responsible for the 
conduct of the programme. It shall normally meet under the Convenership of the 
Programme Lead or Head of Department/School (see 
General Academic Regulations for 
Graduate and Postgraduate Awards, Re gulation  92).  
 
59. There may be instances where it is necessary for a senior and experienced member of 
academic staff to make decisions on Board of Examiners outcomes.  
 
60. Internal and External Examiners should assume a Board will meet as normal and that 
they should attend remotely or in person, unless otherwise informed by the Convener, 
the Secretary or the Head of Department/School. 
Convenors Experiencing Challenges Attending a Board of Examiners Meeting 
61. If a Convener does not feel able to convene a Board of Examiners meeting due to an 
absence from the University, they must alert their Head of Department/School as soon 
as possible, so that an alternative Convener can be identified.  
External Examiner Unable to Attend a Board of Examiners Meeting 
62. The Convener of the Board of Examiners should take an account of the overall 
engagement of the External Examiner throughout the year in conjunction with students’ 
overall performance and profile; this will assist the Board in undertaking its duties, 
maintaining standards and making its decisions in line with expectations for progression 
and awards. This is outlined in Section 2 of the University’s 
Formal Assessment Period: 
Guidance in the Event of Disruption ( extracted below).  
 
63. Factors the Convener will consider, include confirmation that the External Examiner has 
engaged in some or all of the following:  
 
a. Review of programme materials and assessment procedures; 
b. Comment on the content of assessments to ensure that they are appropriate to 
the learning outcomes of the module to be assessed; 
c. Comment on assessment criteria provided; 
d. Moderation and comment on any work at an earlier stage in the academic year; 
e. Worked with other members of the External Examiner team at any other stage in 
the academic year; 
f. Participation in meetings with students; 
g. Participation/involvement in oral examinations; 
h. Attendance at any other Boards of Examiner meetings at any other stage in the 
academic year; 
i. Already signed off marks, progression decisions and awards agreed by the 
Board of Examiners.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15 
 
64. An active involvement is normally expected from the External Examiners in the business 
of the Board. The views and comments of External Examiners should be made known to 
the Boards of Examiners. Where an External Examiner is not able to attend a meeting of 
a Board of Examiners, the Head of Department/School or Programme Leader should 
seek the views and comments from the External Examiner in advance and in writing. The 
External Examiner(s) for the degree programme in question may sit on the Board or 
provide their input in alternative ways.  
 
65. The precise role of the External Examiner is specified in section 7 of the 
Procedures and 
Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes and is stated below:  
 
a. External Examiners provide the University with an objective point of reference, 
and report annually on:  
 
i. whether the academic standards set by the University are being 
maintained and whether the University’s students are achieving the 
required standard;  
ii. whether the assessment process measuring student achievement is 
rigorous, consistent and fair to the students and has been fairly 
conducted within the University’s regulations, policies and guidelines;  
iii. the comparability of academic standards and student achievement with 
those in similar institutions with which they are familiar;  
iv. whether the aims and objectives of the programme(s) are appropriate in 
terms of academic and professional subject matter, with reference as 
applicable to the UK Quality Code for Higher Education, subject 
benchmark statements, the qualifications framework and the 
requirements of professional and statutory bodies;  
v. whether the assessments enable learners to demonstrate the 
achievement of the intended Learning Outcomes and whether the 
curriculum remains current and supports students in the acquisition and 
development of key skills.  
 
66. If an External Examiner is unable to undertake their duties and resigns from their post, 
due to widespread, significant disruption, it may be possible to reappoint said External 
Examiner to their post at a later date. 
External Examiner Resignation Due to Industrial Action 
67. If an External Examiner resigns their post due to industrial action, the resignation should 
be accepted with no expectation of a resumption of duties. A period of no less than three 
years must elapse before re-appointment can be considered. In cases where an External 
Examiner does resign, Departments/Schools should attempt to utilise alternative 
External Examiners to provide cover, where appropriate, or should initiate the nomination 
and approval process.  
 
68. As outlined in paragraph 59 of the 
Procedure & Guidelines for External Examiners of 
Taught Programmes, payment of external examiner fees will only be processed once the 
annual report has been submitted. Therefore, if an External Examiner resigns their post 
before attending the Board of Examiners meeting and submitting their annual report, 
they will not be eligible to claim fees.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16 
 
69. In cases where there is not enough time to appoint another External Examiner before the 
Board of Examiners meeting, any available previous input from the External Examiner 
during the academic year should be conveyed to the members of the Boards of 
Examiners, if available, for example, sampling of assessments, comments on draft 
examination scripts, responses to updates on previous annual reports etc. 
Ensuring Rigour of Marking 
70. The University has procedures to ensure marking is carried out in line with rigorous 
academic standards and is based on clearly defined assessment criteria. In the majority 
of circumstances, the University expects programme teams to operate as usual in 
relation to assessment and moderation. However, during instances of extraordinary 
disruption it may be necessary to consider student profiles at Boards of Examiners 
where it has not been possible to implement in full the University’s Policy on Moderation 
and Double Marking. Unless there are concerns about an individual student’s 
performance, in which case moderation of marks will be required, the absence of 
moderation activities should not preclude an award or progress decision being made.  
Managing Cases Where Only Partial Assessment Profiles Are Available 
71. Where sufficient results are available to allow an academically robust decision on 
performance to be taken, Boards will be expected to do so. It is the case that Boards 
ultimately have the discretion to exercise academic judgement and to reach the decision 
that they deem best reflects the student’s academic performance.  
 
72. Students are normally permitted to carry no more than 20 credits into the next year; 
however, Regulation 7 of the 
General Academic Regulations for Undergraduate, 
Integrated Masters and Professional Graduate Degree Programme Level  s tates that 
exceptionally, the relevant Board of Study acting on the recommendation of the Board of 
Examiners may allow a student to proceed to the next year with fewer credits than 
specified in Regulations 66-69, or in the higher progress requirements stated in that 
student’s programme regulations, although only for good cause shown. In extraordinary 
periods of significant, widespread disruption, the Boards of Examiners may decide that 
students are allowed to progress to the next stage of their studies without having 
undertaken all credit-bearing assessments.  
 
73. In accordance with Regulation 47, the award structure of UG programmes shall normally 
accord with the following:  
Award  Credit Requirement  Minimum level of requirement  
CertHE  120 credits  100 credits at Level 1  
DipHE  240 credits  100 credits at Level 2  
Ordinary Degree  360 credits  60 credits at Level 3  
Honours Degree  480 credits  90 credits at both Level 3 and 4

--- PAGE 17 ---

17 
 
Minimum Level of Credit Required for a Student to Progress 
74. In accordance with Regulation 66 the minimum number of credits permitted for 
progression is outlined below:  
Progression  Credit Requirement  
First – Second Year  100* 
Second – Third Year  220+ 
Third – Fourth Year  360+ 
Fourth – Fifth Year 480+ 
 
 * Or 20 credits less than the number specified in the relevant Programme Regulations  
+ Or the total number of credits specified in the relevant Programme Regulations 
75. As outlined in paragraph 30 above, in cases of extraordinary significant, widespread 
disruption, it may be appropriate to allow a student to proceed to the next year of study 
with less than the standard credit requirement. If this decision is undertaken on an 
individual basis by the Board of Examiners, this would require careful management with 
a programme of support and progress review put in place. In these cases, students 
would ‘Proceed’ and be viewed as at risk. The implications and degree of risk associated 
with proceeding in these circumstances should be carefully explained to students by 
programme teams, (i.e. of failing to meet the required standard for progression, the basis 
on which they are being allowed to progress, and what this does or does not mean for 
their final degree award). The wording of progress decisions requires to be such that 
students are clear of the risks and implications of proceeding pending the outcome of 
outstanding results or resits.  
 
76. If students are permitted to proceed to the next year of study due to a University-wide 
decision on the matter, students will not be considered as proceeding at risk, as outlined 
in paragraph 76,and will simply progress to the next stage without the caveats detailed.  
Impact on the Award of Academic Compensation if Not All Marks Are Available 
77. There may be implications for the award of academic compensation when the final 
credit-weighted average mark (CWA) is not yet known due to missing marks.  
 
78. Students may be required to re-sit a module for which, had the CWA been known and 
above the required threshold (45% for undergraduates and 55% for postgraduate taught 
programmes), a compensated pass could have been awarded for that module, as 
outlined in the Policy on Compensation Scheme. Where sufficient results are available to 
allow an academically robust decision on performance to be taken, Boards will be 
expected to do so.  
Handling Personal Circumstances 
79. Boards of Examiners should be provided, at the start of the meeting, with a detailed note 
of available information on the effects of any disruption on teaching schedules and the 
marking of examinations or assessment so that this can properly inform the Board's 
discussions. Boards of Examiners must take a sympathetic approach to considering 
student outcomes, progression and final awards and will take account of personal

--- PAGE 18 ---

18 
 
circumstances that have been made known to them through the Personal Circumstances 
Procedure.  
 
80. In circumstances concerning sensitive matters, Personal Circumstances may be made 
known to the Board by a designated member of staff, and not formally reported through 
the Pegasus system. While the detail of the circumstances will not be shared with the 
Board, the designated staff member can convey the impact such circumstances have 
had on behalf of the student.  
Information Recorded by Boards of Examiners 
81. Discussions and decisions should be carefully recorded (noting any additional 
information considered). Boards will need to be in a position to recall all of the detail of 
the decisions taken. Full and accurate minutes will also assist with transmission of 
information between the current and any reconvened or future meetings of the Board. In 
cases where meetings are taking place via video link, and secretariat support is not 
available, it may be appropriate for the Convener to record the meeting with the 
agreement of all others involved. This will be for the purposes of creating minutes 
following the meeting, rather than for storing a recording. 
 
82. Minutes/recordings must include, where possible:  
 
a. Attendance and absence of originally nominated Board members;  
b. Any change in the role of members (e.g. appointment of an Acting Convener or 
substitute Internal or External Examiners);  
c. Information on the availability of results for individual students;  
d. Any information available on the effects of the disruption on performance;  
e. Instances where an examination was disrupted (rescheduled/false starts, etc.); 
f. Information on alternative assessments put in place for students, including extended 
deadlines;  
g. References to any guidance or regulations consulted or invoked;  
h. A full record of the reasons for any award or absence of award for a student, where a 
full set of assessment results for that student is not available;  
i. In Honours years, detailed records must be kept of any particular circumstances 
relevant to classification by a future Board.  
 
83. Conveners of Boards of Examiners will need to ensure the Minute Secretary is properly 
briefed and equipped for the role.   
Managing Variations Within Student Cohorts 
84. It is not the case that different standards will be applied in relation to marking, grading, or 
deciding on degree classification. The overarching principle is that the University’s 
academic quality standards and processes are maintained in reaching decisions and 
confirming final results and awards. The University’s Formal Assessment Period: 
Guidance in the Event of Disruption underlines the consistency of practice across the 
institution in this regard. It may be that some students may be informed of their overall 
results for the year before others.  
 
85. It is important to note that in cases where extraordinary and unprecedented disruption 
occurs, it may be necessary to assess students on the same module by different means. 
Academic judgement will be employed by Module Leaders and Programme Leaders to 
ensure that the appropriate learning outcomes are assessed by the alternative

--- PAGE 19 ---

19 
 
assessment, and the Formal Assessment Period: Guidance in the Event of Disruption 
document should be consulted. Any changes must be carefully managed through 
communications with students.  
Challenges in Board of Examiner Judgements with Missing Results 
86. The minutes/recording of the Board should record the level of information available and 
the reasons for the Board’s decision. Notification of the outcome, even where this is that 
no decision could be made, should be submitted as part of the online process for the 
upload of results and awards.  
Relaying Board of Examiner Decisions to Student Lifecycle Services 
87. It is imperative that Student Lifecyle Services is informed if a Board is deferred or re-
scheduled (without decisions having been made) or re-convened (with some decisions 
having been made) as this has implications for internal business processes. The 
Convener is responsible for keeping Student Lifecycle Services abreast of developments 
in this regard.  
Reconvening Boards of Examiners Once More Marks are Available 
88. The Board will need to reconvene as soon as any additional marks become available 
after the end of any period of disruption, in order to confirm outcomes. Guidance on how 
to update the student record with the confirmed outcome will be provided by Student 
Lifecycle Services. 
 
GUIDANCE FOR FINAL HONOURS BOARDS  
External Examiner Participation 
89. External Examiners provide a quality assurance function in the examination process, as 
stated in the Procedures and Guidelines for External Examiners of Taught Programmes
 
and in section 7 above. If an External Examiner cannot participate in the Honours Board 
of Examiners meeting for any reason, their quality assurance function still needs to be 
carried out. This can be done by another External Examiner, or by achieving a level of 
externality to the Board of Examiners’ decision by having internal sign-off on behalf of 
the relevant Department/School/Faculty, via the Vice-Dean (Academic) who will 
subsequently make a report to Senate, via the Quality Assurance Committee or the 
Convener of this Committee.  
 
90. Student Lifecycle Services should be notified of circumstances in which a Board 
proceeds without an External Examiner’s participation, where this would otherwise have 
been expected. 
 
91. Where available, the Convener of the Board of Examiners should take account of the 
overall engagement of the External Examiner throughout the year in conjunction with 
students’ overall performance and profile; this will assist the Board in undertaking its 
duties, maintaining standards and making its decisions in line with expectations for 
progression and awards. This is outlined in Section 2 of the University’s Formal 
Assessment Period: Guidance in the Event of Disruption. In usual circumstances, an 
active involvement is expected from the External Examiners in the business of the 
Board. The views and comments of External Examiners should be made known to the 
Boards of Examiners. Where an External Examiner is not able to attend a meeting of a 
Board of Examiners, the Head of Department/School or Programme Leader should seek 
the views and comments from the External Examiner in advance and in writing.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20 
 
Classifying Degrees With Missing Results 
92. In periods of widespread, significant disruption to learning and teaching activities and 
associated assessment, the University works to ensure that this is minimised where 
possible, and therefore it is expected that classification decisions will be made across the 
vast majority of programmes. In cases of severe, unexpected disruption, Senate will 
issue specific guidance regarding the classification of degrees if required. 
Student Graduation Without Confirmed Degree Classification 
93. It is not necessary for a student's degree classification to be known before they can 
graduate. Some students may be invited to graduate with an honours degree that is 
unclassified at the time of the ceremony. If a student does choose to graduate with an 
unclassified degree at the time of the graduation ceremony and subsequently wishes to 
appeal the degree classification once it has been confirmed, they must follow the 
appeals procedure as set out in the 
Personal Circumstances and Academic Appeals 
Procedure. 
 
94. The final class of degree will then be confirmed to each student by Student Lifecycle 
Services as soon as the relevant assessment information becomes available, and 
Boards have confirmed the final outcome. If Boards do not have enough results available 
to them to classify a degree but do have sufficient information to be certain that a student 
has reached at least the minimum requirement to be awarded an honours degree or 
pass degree, this can be conferred.  
 
95. Boards will be asked to confirm to Student Lifecycle Services the student’s eligibility for 
either an Interim/Conditional Honours Unclassified or an Interim/Conditional Pass 
Degree. Once all the assessment information becomes available, Boards will classify the 
degree, or award the actual Honours degree. An interim/conditional award of a Pass 
degree will be revoked where the final outcome confirms that a student has achieved an 
Honours degree.  
Perceptions of a Devaluation of the University’s Degrees 
96. This Procedure seeks to ensure that the University’s degrees remain of a high standard 
and are not perceived as devalued.  Students' academic performance is assessed by 
Boards in the light of two overriding principles which form the basis for assessment at all 
times: the maintenance of the University's academic standards and consistency of 
treatment of students. Clear guidance will be issued to staff about the assessment of 
work in the context of disruption, based firmly on the existing quality, academic 
standards and regulatory frameworks. Where decisions are made on the basis of 
incomplete results, the Board must be satisfied that, in its academic judgement, the 
classification assigned is correct and the decision beyond reasonable doubt.  
 
97. It remains the case that it is not within the power of a Board of Examiners to recommend 
the award of any degree, diploma or certificate without substantial evidence of 
attainment to at least the lowest level required for the award of that qualification.  
 
GUIDANCE FOR UNDERGRADUATE YEAR 1,2 & 3 PROGRESSION BOARDS  
Progressing Students in Periods of Disruption 
98. In periods of widespread, significant disruption to learning and teaching activities and 
associated assessment, the University works to ensure that this is minimised where 
possible, and therefore it is expected that classification decisions will be made across the

--- PAGE 21 ---

21 
 
vast majority of programmes. In cases of severe, unexpected disruption, Senate will 
issue specific guidance regarding the classification of degrees if required. 
 
GUIDANCE FOR PGT BOARDS OF EXAMINERS  
Awarding Merits or Distinctions 
99. In periods of widespread, significant disruption to learning and teaching activities and 
associated assessment, the University works to ensure that this is minimised where 
possible, and therefore it is expected that classification decisions will be made across the 
vast majority of programmes. In cases of severe, unexpected disruption, Senate will 
issue specific guidance regarding the classification of degrees if required. 
 
100. There may be circumstances where students are allowed to progress to the Master’s 
dissertation stage on the basis of a profile that is missing marks, and when those marks 
are subsequently provided, they demonstrate that the student would not have 
progressed had they been available. In these circumstances, the decision to allow a 
student to progress will not be reversed if the decision to progress has already been 
communicated to the student. In such a situation, the programme team should ensure 
that the student is provided with enhanced support, usually via supervisory 
arrangements. 
 
101. Boards will need to be prepared to address issues arising where a student does well in a 
Master’s dissertation but is subsequently found to have performed below the required 
standard in Diploma coursework or examinations, the results of which were unavailable 
to the Board at an earlier stage. In such cases, the Board of Examiners is advised to 
consider the situation sympathetically. 
Motivational Merits and Distinctions 
102. Motivational merits and distinctions should be awarded during periods of widespread, 
significant disruption. The University’s Policy on Motivational Merit & Distinction sets out 
the criteria for being awarded a motivational merit (60% or more credit weighted 
average) or motivational distinction (70% or more credit weighted average). The Policy 
specifies that motivational merits or distinctions can only be awarded if all modules have 
been passed at the first attempt.  
 
103. Boards of Examiners will continue to award motivational merit and distinction where 
students meet the normal criteria.   
 
GUIDANCE FOR PGR EXAMINERS 
Examining Committee (Viva Voce or Orals) Schedules 
104. Viva voce and oral exams should proceed as scheduled where possible during periods 
of widespread disruption. In instances where it is not possible for an exam of this type to 
take place on campus, efforts should be made for the examination to be held via video 
link so as not to cause undue delay for the student. Please see the University’s 
Guidance on the Operation of Hybrid or Virtual Oral Examinations. 
PGR Examining Committee Quorum 
105. The University’s Policy and Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Study 
(paragraphs 212-216) states that the Examining Committee normally comprises at least

--- PAGE 22 ---

22 
 
two active researchers – an Internal Examiner who is not part of the supervisory team 
and an External Examiner (two External Examiners in the case of a Doctorate by 
Publication) – and a Convener, who is not part of the supervisory team. Alternative 
arrangements should be made to adjust the membership of Examining Committee at the 
earliest opportunity, where any of the examiners are affected by significant disruption 
and unable to attend in person or remotely.  
 
106. Further general guidance is available for 
External Examiners of a Postgraduate 
Research Examining Committee. 
Examining Conveners/Internal Examiners of Examining Committees 
107. If a Convener or Internal Examiner does not feel able to act in their role, in the context of 
widespread, significant disruption, they must alert their Head of Department/School as 
soon as possible, so that an alternative Convener or Internal Examiner can be identified.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23 
 
APPENDIX B – ENHANCED SUPPORT FOR STUDENTS: EXAMPLE FROM DISRUPTION 
CAUSED BY COVID-19 PANDEMIC 
 
Systems and Approaches to Support Module and Programme Activities  Systems to Target and Personalise Student Support 
In preparation for the AY staff are provided with a range of guidance to enable them to 
develop a blend of learning activities: 
• Guidance for supporting the learning & teaching of students during periods of 
disruption 
• Guidance on Changes to Programmes and Module in the Event of Disruption 
• Procedure for Markers & BoE in the Event of Disruption 
• Guidance and FAQs for Boards of Examiners 
• Guidance on the Use of Video Conferencing for Viva Voce Examinations 
• Online Student Engagement Guidance 
• Academic Continuity Guidance on Myplace 
The University can put in place support for students in response to widespread significant 
disruption in a range of different areas: 
• Extended online counselling support 
• 1:1 disability needs assessment 
• 1:1 mental health assessment 
• Digital Inclusion Programme 
• Covid-19 Hardship Fund 
• Emergency Aid Fund 
• Free software 
• Covid 19 Testing Facilities 
• Online wellbeing programmes 
 
The University has policies and procedures around assessment marking criteria: 
• Assessment & Feedback Policy 
• Policy on Moderation & Double Marking 
• Policy on Compensation Scheme] 
• Guidance on Marking Assessments in UG and PGR courses 
The University can adjust key processes to support students: 
• Extensions request system applied sympathetically 
• Personal Circumstances Procedure adapted in response to widespread disruption 
• Longer term circumstances discussed with Programme Leader and Disability & 
Wellbeing Services to determine impact on students’ studies 
 
All of the above policies and procedures are utilised by staff before marks are sent to the 
Board of Examiners for confirmation 
Confidential Personal Circumstances Boards meet before Boards of Examiners meetings to 
consider personal circumstances logged on Pegasus and to subsequently make 
recommendations to Boards of Examiners 
Boards of Examiners 
Membership includes independent external examiners 
Boards will be provided with an updated Guidance and FAQs for Boards of Examiners in the Event of Disruption to Study (to be approved by Senate) 
Boards of Examiners utilise the Policy on Honours Classification and Other Awards Ranking and Policy on Motivational Merit and Distinction to make outcome decisions 
 
All of the above activities lead to Awards Decisions and Progression Decisions