--- PAGE 1 ---

PROCEDURE FOR 
MANAGING STUDENTS 
WITH CRIMINAL 
PROCEEDINGS AND 
UNSPENT CRIMINAL 
CONVICTIONS 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A procedure for 
managing cases 
where students hold, 
or incur, unspent 
criminal convictions 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate – 1st June 
2022 
From academic 
year 2021/22 
onwards 
2.0 Incorporating a minor 
amendment made to 
the Procedure 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate From academic 
year 2024/25 
onwards 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 
 
Version 1.0

--- PAGE 2 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
1 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Contents 
TABLE OF CONTENTS ............................................................................................. 1 
INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................ 2 
DECLARING A RELEVANT CONVINCTION OR CHARGE ....................................... 3 
STAGE 1: INITIAL ASSESSMENT ............................................................................ 3 
STAGE 2: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS PANEL .......................................................... 5 
RIGHT TO APPEAL ................................................................................................... 7 
RECORD KEEPING & REPORTING ......................................................................... 9

--- PAGE 3 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
2 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. The University has a commitment to protect students, staff and other stakeholders by 
providing a safe and secure environment for all. This Procedure focuses on situations where 
the University is informed that a registered student or applicant (known hereafter as 
‘Student’) has: 
 
a. An unspent criminal conviction, which are convictions that have not yet reached a 
set period of time as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. These 
convictions are therefore active and will appear on a basic criminal record disclosure 
check. 
b. A criminal conviction arising outside the UK which, had it occurred in the UK, would 
be considered an unspent criminal conviction as described in a above; 
c. A potential pending criminal charge; a charge which, upon becoming a conviction, is 
an unspent conviction; 
d. A relevant spent conviction which must be disclosed because of the nature of the 
programme e.g., the programme involves working with children or protected adults 
and a Disclosure Scotland Protecting Vulnerable Groups (PVG) criminal record 
disclosure check is required. Spent convictions are convictions that have reached a 
set period, (as defined by the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974), and are 
removed from an individual’s criminal record. 
 
2. The categories outlined in paragraph 1 above are referred to hereafter in this Procedure as 
Relevant Conviction or Charge. 
 
3. It is important to note that this Procedure does not constitute a legal or criminal process, 
however the Procedure is underpinned by the University’s legal, moral and ethical duty 
towards all members of the University (students, staff, visitors and other stakeholders). 
 
4. All students of the University of Strathclyde are subject to the jurisdiction of the Senate, the 
academic governing body of the University. Senate delegates its authority for managing 
cases where a Relevant Conviction or Charge is declared or discovered, to the roles and 
groups defined within this Procedure. 
 
5. Some programmes of study, and some University volunteering initiatives, such as those that 
involve contact with children, protected adults or vulnerable people require students to be 
subject to a criminal record disclosure check. In Scotland, this process is managed and 
delivered by Disclosure Scotland. If a disclosure check is a requirement for a particular 
programme of study, this will be arranged by the relevant Faculty/Department/School. Some 
programmes of study require students to become members of the PVG Scheme. Disclosure 
Scotland continually monitors PVG scheme members' records for vetting information 
including criminal convictions that may affect their suitability to work with vulnerable groups. 
The University has a Lead Signatory for the PVG Scheme. 
 
6. Senate delegates authority to the Professional Lead (see paragraph 13), and the Criminal 
Convictions Panel (see paragraph 22) to make decisions on behalf of Senate, at application 
stage, annual registration stage and during registration, regarding a Student’s registration or

--- PAGE 4 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
3 
 
 
 
continued registration at the University of Strathclyde. These decisions are not referred to 
Senate for approval, however Senate does receive anonymised reports on the outcome of 
cases heard by the Professional Lead and the Criminal Convictions Panel (see paragraph 
40). 
 
7. Students undergoing this process are encouraged to contact the University’s Disability & 
Wellbeing Service for support, and to contact the StrathUnion Advice Hub for advice and 
guidance. Students and offer holders studying on a visa, are encouraged to contact the 
International Support Team for advice and to identify any visa implications related to this 
process. 
 
8. This Procedure has an associated right to appeal, set out in paragraph 27 onwards 
below. Students and offer holders also have the right to make a complaint at any point in 
during this process, through the University’s Complaints Handling Procedure. 
 
DECLARING A RELEVANT CONVICTION OR CHARGE 
9. The University publishes on its website information relating to applying or continuing to 
study when a Student has a Relevant Conviction or Charge. 
 
10. At application stage and at each registration stage (for programmes of study that require a 
criminal record disclosure check), a Student must declare any Relevant Convictions or 
Charges. 
 
11. If a Student acquires a Relevant Conviction or Charge at any point during their studies, they 
have a duty to immediately update their record on Pegasus. Where the Relevant Conviction 
or Charge relates to a Student who is on a programme of study that requires a criminal 
record disclosure check, Student Business should immediately inform the relevant 
Faculty/Department/School, and also email disclosure@strath.ac.uk. 
 
12. Any failure to declare a Relevant Conviction or Charge will lead to automatic escalation to 
Stage 2 of this Procedure if the Relevant Conviction or Charge is discovered later. 
 
STAGE 1: INITIAL ASSESSMENT 
13. A senior member of the University’s Directorate of Student Experience, known hereafter as 
the Professional Lead, will manage Stage 1 of this Procedure. Where a criminal record 
disclosure check is required, the PVG Lead Signatory should be involved at this stage. If the 
Student is on a programme of study that requires membership of Disclosure Scotland’s PVG 
Scheme, the Student’s access to placement and/or studies may be restricted until the 
completion of this Procedure e.g. the commencement date of a placement may be 
postponed pending the completion of this Procedure. 
 
14. In the first instance, the Professional Lead will gather relevant information from the Student 
and the programme team, to inform an assessment of the Relevant Conviction or Charge, 
which the Student must provide within five working days of receiving a request from the 
Professional Lead. This should include all information of relevance, such as:

--- PAGE 5 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
4 
 
 
 
 
a. The nature of the Relevant Conviction or Charge; 
b. The period set for this to be spent; 
c. Confirmation, from the programme team, of whether the Relevant Conviction or 
Charge is one which must be disclosed because of the nature of the programme of 
study; 
d. Any additional information the Student can provide, for example from the Probation 
Service, Social Services, or independent references or reports. 
 
15. Where the programme of study requires an updated criminal record disclosure check, the 
Student will be required to complete the necessary application process and cover any 
associated costs. 
 
16. If a Student declares a Relevant Conviction or Charge but fails to engage appropriately with 
the gathering of information at Stage 1 within the set timescales, the Professional Lead may 
take the following action: 
 
a. If, after five working days from the Professional Lead contacting the Student to 
request the information outlined in paragraph 14, a Student has failed to respond to a 
request for further information or fails, without good reason, to provide reasonably 
sufficient information to enable an appropriate assessment, a first warning may be 
issued by the Professional Lead that any further delay or inadequacy in response 
may result in suspension of registration and escalation to Stage 2 of this Procedure; 
b. If, after a further five working days, following a warning issued under paragraph 16a 
above, a Student continues to fail to respond or fails to provide reasonably sufficient 
information to enable an appropriate assessment, the Student’s studies may be 
temporarily suspended with a second warning that further delay or inadequacy in 
response will result in escalation to Stage 2 of this Procedure, with a 
recommendation to the Board of Study that the Student be withdrawn; 
c. If a Student fails to respond appropriately within five working days after a second 
warning, under paragraph 16b, the case will be escalated to Stage 2 of this 
Procedure with a recommendation to the Board of Study that the Student be 
withdrawn. 
 
17. Once the Professional Lead has acquired the full details of the Relevant Conviction or 
Charge, they will carry out a risk assessment in consultation with the relevant academic 
department or school, usually within 30 working days of receipt of the information outlined in 
paragraph 
14 above. This will be conducted using the University’s Criminal Conviction Risk 
Assessment Form and will identify one of the following outcomes regarding the Student’s 
registration: 
 
a. That the Student’s registration should remain active and that no further action is 
required; 
b. That the Student’s registration should remain active, subject to conditions set by the 
Professional Lead. Typically, these conditions will focus on conduct during 
registration and may include requirements to report to an appropriate member of

--- PAGE 6 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
5 
 
 
 
staff on a defined schedule or to provide regular reports from an external source, 
such as a Probation Officer or other service provider supporting rehabilitation. Any 
set conditions that are not met will result in the case being escalated immediately to 
Stage 2 of this Procedure; 
c. That the Student’s registration potentially poses a risk to students and staff and that 
the case should be escalated to Stage 2 of this Procedure and a Criminal 
Convictions Panel should convene to consider the case. 
 
18. The Professional Lead will articulate the outcome of Stage 1 to the Student in writing, 
usually within ten working days of completion of the risk assessment. For outcome 17.b 
above, the Professional Lead will require the Student to confirm, in writing, that they have 
understood the conditions set and agree to meet these conditions. Failure to confirm and 
agree to the conditions set will result in escalation to Stage 2 of this Procedure. In the case 
of outcome 17.c above, the Professional Lead will immediately refer the case to Stage 2 of 
this Procedure. 
 
19. All outcomes relating to paragraph 17.a and 17.b will be reported to the Director of Student 
Experience. All outcomes relating to paragraph 17.c will be reported to the University 
Secretary. 
 
20. If the Student’s behaviour is having a negative impact on other students and staff, either in 
terms of disruption or in a manner which raises safety concerns (both for the Student or 
anyone else), the Student may be restricted from accessing University services, buildings 
and/or other property, as a precautionary measure. 
 
21. The decision of the Professional Lead is final and there is no right of appeal at Stage 1. The 
Student can contact the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman for advice, should they wish 
to make a complaint to the Ombudsman regarding the outcomes of a Stage 1 assessment, 
in line with sections 3 and 4 of the Complaints Handling Procedure. 
 
STAGE 2: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS PANEL 
22. Senate delegates authority to a Criminal Convictions Panel (a constituted Sub Committee of 
Senate, see Constitutional Regulations (1.5.14 to 1.5.16) to review and make decisions on 
Stage 2 cases relating to Relevant Convictions or Charges. Criminal Conviction Panel 
membership will comprise: 
 
a. The Director of Student Experience (or nominee) who acts as Panel Convener. This 
individual cannot be the Stage 1 Professional Lead. If a vote is needed regarding the 
Criminal Convictions Panel hearing outcomes, the Director of Student Experience 
will hold the casting vote; 
b. A representative from the Faculty within which the Student is registered or to be 
registered; 
c. A member of the Criminal Convictions Panel from Senate membership; 
d. The University’s PVG Lead Signatory, if the programme of study requires a criminal 
record disclosure check.

--- PAGE 7 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
6 
 
 
23. The Criminal Convictions Panel will consider the evidence presented by the Professional 
Lead, which will include the completed Criminal Conviction Risk Assessment Form and any 
available supporting evidence. The Student will be invited to submit a written statement in 
support of their case, within at least 5 working days’ of being notified of the Criminal 
Convictions Panel meeting date. The Criminal Convictions Panel meeting will be a closed- 
door process and will not require the presence of the Student or the Professional Lead. 
Having considered the evidence, the Criminal Convictions Panel will determine whether it 
is appropriate for the Student to remain registered/pending registration, and whether any 
conditions should be attached to remaining registered or proceeding to registration. 
 
24. In arriving at its determination, the Criminal Convictions Panel will consider the following: 
 
a. Nature of the offence(s) and related sentence; 
b. The time elapsed since completion of sentence; 
c. Any relevant information available as to the likelihood of reoffending from an external 
source, such as a Probation Officer or other service provider supporting 
rehabilitation; 
d. The risks presented by potential re-offending to the University and its staff and 
students; 
e. Any steps that can be reasonably taken to mitigate such risks; 
f. The degree with which the Student has engaged with and disclosed under this 
Procedure. 
 
25. The possible outcomes of the Criminal Convictions Panel hearing shall be as follows: 
 
a. That the Student should proceed to registration/remain registered and that no further 
action is required; 
b. That the Student’s status as a registered student/pending student should remain 
active, subject to conditions set by the Criminal Convictions Panel. Typically, these 
conditions will focus on conduct during registration and may include requirements to 
report to an appropriate member of staff on a defined schedule or to provide regular 
reports from an external source, such as a Probation Officer or other service provider 
supporting rehabilitation. Any set conditions, (including a requirement to engage with 
the Procedure) that are not met may result in reconsideration by the Criminal 
Convictions Panel and therefore registration being suspended; 
c. That the Student’s registration poses a risk to students and staff or any individuals in 
a placement setting and that the registration should be suspended with immediate 
effect, until the Relevant Conviction is spent, subject to any enhanced disclosure 
requirements for programmes of study requiring a criminal record disclosure check, 
or until a Relevant Charge has gone to trial, at which point the Criminal Convictions 
Panel may review the suspension in light of the outcome of the criminal justice 
process;

--- PAGE 8 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
7 
 
 
 
d. The Student’s registration poses a risk to students and staff or any individuals in a 
placement setting and that their registration should be terminated with immediate 
effect. If the Student has achieved enough credits for the award for which they are 
registered, or for a lower, exit award, subject to confirmation of the award by the 
Board of Study, the Student will still be eligible for the award. All students can 
request transcripts from the University. 
 
26. Usually within five working days of the Criminal Conviction Panel meeting, the Student will 
be informed of the outcome of the Criminal Convictions Panel in writing by the Director of 
Student Experience (or nominee) and, in the case of outcome 25b above, will be required to 
confirm, in writing, that they understand the conditions attached to their registration and 
agree to meet these. If the Student fails to respond in writing within five days of receipt of 
the conditions, or to meet the conditions, this may result in the suspension of the Student’s 
registration/pending registration until they re-engage with the process. 
 
RIGHT TO APPEAL 
27. If a Student wishes to submit an appeal against the outcomes of the Criminal Convictions 
Panel hearing at Stage 2, they must submit the Criminal Convictions Panel Appeals Form to 
the Vice-Principal via the Directorate of Student Experience within ten working days of 
receiving written confirmation of the outcome of Stage 2. 
 
28. The criteria for appeal against the outcomes of a Criminal Convictions Panel hearing are as 
follows: 
 
a. Fresh material information is available, which was not available on reasonable 
enquiry or application at the time of consideration by the Criminal Convictions Panel; 
b. A procedural irregularity occurred during the process; 
c. Bias or prejudice against the Student was demonstrated by the Criminal Convictions 
Panel; 
d. The decision reached was perverse, in that it was one which no reasonable person 
could have reached on the available evidence. 
 
29. The Vice-Principal (or nominee) will convene a group of three Senators1 who are members 
of staff, including themselves, to determine whether there are sufficient grounds for appeal. 
This group will usually meet within 20 working days of receipt of the appeal. 
 
30. If the group of the Vice-Principal (or nominee) and Staff Senators, see paragraph 29 above, 
decide there are insufficient grounds for appeal, the case will be dismissed. There is no 
further right to appeal. Students can contact the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman for 
advice, should they wish to make a complaint to the Ombudsman regarding the outcomes 
of a Criminal Convictions Panel hearing, in line with sections 3 and 4 of the Complaints 
Handling Procedure. 
 
 
1 Members of the University’s Senate 
 
31. If the group of the Vice-Principal (or nominee) and Staff Senators decide that there are

--- PAGE 9 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
8 
 
 
sufficient grounds for appeal, the Director of Education Enhancement (or nominee) will be 
required to arrange a Criminal Convictions Appeals Panel (hereafter known as Appeals 
Panel), with entirely new membership, to hear the appeal. 
 
32. The Appeals Panel will not meet with the Student and the Student will be given the 
opportunity to produce a written statement and additional documentation relevant to the 
criteria in support of the appeal within at least 5 working days’ notice of the Appeals 
Panel meeting date. 
 
33. The Appeals Panel membership will be formed on the same principles as set out in 
paragraph 22, except that the Convener will be a Staff Senator appointed by the Vice- 
Principal. If the programme of study requires a criminal record disclosure check, the PVG 
Lead Signatory may be asked to attend the hearing to provide expertise and insight to the 
Appeals Panel, however they will not be involved in the decision-making process, due to 
their involvement in the Stage 2 Criminal Convictions Panel hearing. 
 
34. The Appeals Panel will carefully review the appeal information relating to the criteria for the 
appeal, including the information gathered by the Professional Lead at Stage 1, the notes of 
the Stage 2 Criminal Convictions Hearing and the Criminal Conviction Risk Assessment 
Form. They will also review any documentation provided by the Student relating to the 
criteria for the appeal. Where the appellant has raised concerns about the conduct of the 
Stage 2 Panel the Appeals Panel will be asked to respond to those concerns 
 
35. The Appeals Panel will decide whether to uphold the Student’s appeal and impose 
alternative outcomes under paragraph 25 of this Procedure, or to dismiss the appeal and 
confirm that the original outcomes should stand. 
 
36. A summary record of the Appeals Panel hearing will be taken and will be provided to the 
Student by the Director of Education Enhancement (or nominee) at the point of confirming 
the decision of the Appeals Panel. 
 
37. The Convener (or nominee) will confirm the decision of the Appeals Panel to the Student in 
writing, normally within five working days of the date of the hearing. In exceptional 
circumstances, the Appeals Panel may need to source additional information, which may 
delay confirmation of the outcome. In these circumstances, the Convener (or nominee) will 
write to the Student to confirm the reason for the delay and keep them informed of 
timescales. Any delay should not normally continue beyond 20 working days from the date 
of the appeal hearing. 
 
38. The decision of the Appeals Panel is final and there is no further right to appeal. 
 
39. As noted in paragraph 30 above, Students can contact the Scottish Public Services 
Ombudsman for advice, should they wish to make a complaint to the Ombudsman 
regarding the outcomes of a Criminal Convictions Panel hearing, in line with sections 3 
and 4 of the Complaints Handling Procedure.

--- PAGE 10 ---

Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal 
Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions 
9 
 
 
 
RECORD KEEPING & REPORTING 
40. Senate receives regular reports of cases heard by Professional Leads and the Criminal 
Convictions Panel. These are anonymised in nature and heard under the Reserved 
Agenda of Senate. Senate receives these reports to provide it with a strategic overview of 
this Procedure and to identify any revisions required to benefit Students undergoing this 
process. 
 
41. All decisions made under both stages of this Procedure must be recorded in writing and 
stored by the Directorate of Student Experience. Access to information regarding criminal 
convictions should be restricted to only those staff directly involved in the case.