--- PAGE 1 ---

Approved 
Approved : March 2008 
 
 
Approved by: Senate March 2008 
 
University Guidance for the Completion of 
Programme Specifications and Template for 
Programme Specifications

--- PAGE 2 ---

University of Strathclyde 
Guidance for t
he Completion of Programme Specifications and Template for Programme Specifications 
Approved:  March 2008  
 
 
University of Strathclyde 
 
Guidance for the Completion of Programme  
Specifications and Template for Programme Specifications 
 
 
The SFC has adopted the following minimum data set for programme specifications as 
agreed by the Scottish Advisory Committee on Credit and Access (SACCA) (HE/01/05, 
Annex A): 
 
 awarding body/institution and status – plus teaching institution, if different; 
 
 details of accreditation by professional or statutory body; 
 
 name of final award and location in the Scottish Credit and Qualifications 
Framework (SCQF) – level and credit points; 
 
 aims of the programme (this to be a broad general outline that can be maintained 
as an up to date statement with pointers to further details where appropriate); 
 
 relevant subject benchmark statements and other external and internal reference 
points used to inform programme outcomes; 
 
 programme outcomes; knowledge and understanding; skills and other attributes 
(this to be a broad outline of the key general and programme specific outcomes 
with pointers to the location of further details); 
 
 teaching, learning and assessment strategies (this to be a short statement 
including any distinctive features and the mode of study, and to include pointers 
to the location of further details); 
 
 programme structures and requirements, level, modules, credits and awards (a 
short statement about any particular/distinctive aspects of the structure but 
otherwise a pointer to the location of further details); 
 
 admission requirements and the main opportunities for credit transfer into the 
programme, for example, an indication of whether or not HNQs are accepted with 
credit and pointers to further information; 
 
 pointers to further study-progression routes and any major opportunities for credit 
transfer out of the programme; and 
 
 the date at which the programme specification was written or revised. 
 
It has also agreed the principle that programme specifications should be aimed at and 
meaningful to current and intending students. 
 
SFC further agreed that the TQI website (now the UNISTATS site) will contain 
appropriate links to Programme Specifications held on each institutions own website.

--- PAGE 3 ---

University of Strathclyde 
Guidance for t
he Completion of Programme Specifications and Template for Programme Specifications 
Approved:  March 2008  
 
 
 
Within Strathclyde, Programme Specifications are also seen as helpful tools for quality 
assurance and enhancement.  Their preparation promotes discussion and reflection on 
new and existing programmes and ensures that there is a common understanding of the 
aims and intended learning outcomes for the programmes.  They serve as reference 
points for course approval, monitoring and review.  However, the final document must be 
comprehensible and useful to student users. 
 
Producing a Programme Specification is an academic, rather than an administrative 
activity, and the exact content will be determined by the course team.  The attached 
template is intended to ensure that the minimum data set has been produced for each 
course and that there is a level of consistency in style across the institution for those 
accessing these documents through the UNISTATS website.  In line with the SACCA 
model it would be helpful if links were provided to relevant information elsewhere on the 
website or intranet, so that readers can access an increasing level of detail if required. 
 
You are asked to provide the Governance, Management and Policy Team with a link to 
where your programme specification is stored on the intranet or web so that we can 
provide the required link from the UNISTATS website. 
 
Programme title and name of final award 
Degree title and name of final award. 
 
Awarding institution 
Default: University of Strathclyde.   
If the programme leads to a joint award with another university or universities: Joint 
award of University of Strathclyde and University of X. 
 
Teaching institution(s) 
Default: University of Strathclyde.   
If other organisations are involved in teaching, e.g. through validation agreements:  
University of Strathclyde and James Watt College of Further Education. 
 
Credit and level definition of final award 
This should be in the standard format of the Framework for Qualifications of Higher 
Education Institutions in Scotland, e.g. for an undergraduate honours programme: SCQF 
Level 10 (SHE Level 4), total 480 SCQF credits (= 240 ECTS credits), including 
minimum of 120 SCQF credits at Level 10 (SHE Level 4) 
 
Credit and level definition(s) of any intermediate exit points 
If intermediate exit awards are available, list each of these with the appropriate credit 
definition in the standard format, e.g.  Certificate of HE:  SCQF Level 7 (SHE Level1), 
total 120 SCQF credits (= 60 ECTS credits), including a minimum of 90 at Level 1. 
 
Reference points for academic standards 
This should always include Scottish Credit & Qualifications Framework, and may 
include: QAA Subject benchmark statemen t; relevant PSB statements, etc as 
appropriate.

--- PAGE 4 ---

University of Strathclyde 
Guidance for the Completion of Programme Specifications and Template for Programme Specifications 
Approved:  March 2008  
 
 
Professional, statutory or regulatory body accreditation 
If the course is accredited by a Professional or Statutory Body, provide general details 
here and a web link for further information.   
 
Given the time-limited nature of accreditation do not include any definitive statement that 
the course is currently accredited.  Instead say something like:  This course was 
designed to meet the accreditation requirements of the Law Society.  See ‘web link’ for 
current accreditation status. 
 
Aims of the programme 
A short indicative statement of the broad aims of the course as a whole, considering the 
final award.  A link to more detailed information can be provided under 'Further 
information' below.  
 
Learning outcomes of the programme (knowledge and understanding, skills and 
other attributes) 
A short indicative statement of the broad intended learning outcomes of the course as a 
whole, considering the final award.  A link to more detailed information can be provided 
under 'Further information' below.  
 
Normal duration of the programme 
Normal duration of study for the full course.  Include notes regarding part-time study and 
distance learning. 
 
Structure of the programme (including mode of study) 
Concise statement of the structure of the course.  A link to more detailed information can 
be provided under 'Further information' below.  
 
Methods of assessment and learning and teaching approaches 
A brief statement of the different types of assessment (both formative and summative) 
and the learning and teaching approaches used in the course. 
 
Entry requirements (including opportunities for credit transfer into the Programme 
(i.e. from HNC, HND) 
Concise statement of indicative entry requirements. 
 
Pointers to further study-progression routes and any major opportunities for 
credit transfer out of the programme. 
Brief statement of opportunities and/or provide links to the relevant pages on the 
contents management system. 
 
Further information 
Provide links to the relevant pages on the contents management system. 
 
Date of production/revision 
Date on which the Programme Specification was approved by Faculty Board of Study

--- PAGE 5 ---

University of Strathclyde 
 
 
Programme Specification 
 
 
Programme title and name of final award:   
 
UCAS Code: 
Awarding institution:  University of Strathclyde 
 
Teaching institution(s):  University of Strathclyde 
 
Credit and level definition of final award: 
 
Credit and level definition(s) of any intermediate exit points: 
 
Reference points for academic standards (i.e. subject benchmark statements): 
 
 
 
 
Professional, statutory or regulatory body accreditation: 
 
 
 
 
 
Aims of the programme: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Learning outcomes of the programme (knowledge and understanding, skills and other 
attributes): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normal duration of the programme: 
 
 
 
 
 
Structure of the programme (including mode of study): 
 
 
 
Guidance for t
he Completion of Programme Specifications and Template for Programme Specifications 
Approved:  March 2008  
4

--- PAGE 6 ---

University of Strathclyde 
Guidance for the Completion of Programme Specifications and Template for Programme Specifications 
Approved:  March 2008  
5 
 
 
 
 
Methods of assessment and learning and teaching approaches: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entry requirements including opportunities for credit transfer into the Programme (i.e. 
from HNC, HND): 
 
 
 
 
 
Pointers to further study-progression routes and any major opportunities for credit 
transfer out of the programme:  
 
 
 
 
Further information: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of approval by the Faculty Board of Study: