--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
 
 
 
 
Guidance for students and 
staff on student maternity, 
maternity/ paternity 
support and adoption. 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.1 Guidance for students 
and staff on student 
maternity, maternity/ 
paternity support and 
adoption. 
Student 
Support and 
Wellbeing 
Equality and 
Diversity Strategy 
Committee, June 
2014 
June 2014 
June 2014 Version 1.1 
 
 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
Need advice about pregnancy? Please go to page 9 for more information about where to 
get advice and support. 
 
This guidance outlines the University’s approach to issues related to student pregnancy, 
maternity, paternity and adoption. 
 
Table of Contents 
1. Introduction           3 
2. Scope of the Guidance         3 
3. Legal Context           3 
4. Managing studies          3
  Pregnancy and Maternity       3 
Partners, adopters and guardians      3 
Termination and miscarriage      4 
What students should do       4 
What the Faculty should do       4 
What Professional Services should do     4 
5.  Academic and practical considerations and student wellbeing    5 
Academic performance and study arrangements    5 
Health and safety        5 
Resuming studies        6 
Financial considerations       6 
Immigration considerations for international students   7 
Accommodation (Halls of Residence)     7 
Babies/Children on campus       7 
Rest facilities, breast feeding and baby changing    7 
6. Support for partners (including same sex partners)  
who have responsibility for bringing up the child      7 
7. Students becoming parents through adoption      7 
8. Complaints           7 
 
Appendix 1: Sources of help and information      8 
Appendix 2: Student Support Plan        9 
Appendix 3: Welfare Room facilities on campus      13

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
1. Introduction 
 
The University of Strathclyde is committed to supporting all students in matters relating to 
pregnancy, maternity, paternity and adoption of a child that arise during the course of a student’s 
studies.  The University recognises that such matters can have a major impact on studies and is 
committed to facilitating a student’s success, whilst upholding academic standards.      
 
This guidance provides advice on how the University will approach these matters in relation to 
your studies. 
2. Scope of the Guidance 
 
This guidance covers any registered student who becomes pregnant, is about to become a 
parent or take on parental responsibilities (e.g. through adoption, guardianship or the pregnancy 
of a partner) or has recently become a parent.  Throughout this guidance, the term “partner” 
includes spouses, unmarried partners and same sex partners. 
 
This guidance also provides advice for University staff who may have a role in advising or 
managing the studies of a student affected by these matters. 
3. Legal context 
 
The Equality Act 2010 considers pregnancy and maternity to be a protected characteristic and 
prohibits discrimination on these grounds.  
 
4. Managing Studies   
 
The University has a responsibility to ensure that students affected by matters covered in this 
guidance are supported appropriately and fairly. The University recognises that each student 
affected by the matters covered in this guidance will have varying needs. Therefore the 
University’s approach to supporting students and managing their studies will depend on the 
circumstances of the individual and the requirements of their studies. 
 
Pregnancy and maternity 
Pregnant students and those who have recently given birth will need to consider and discuss a 
range of issues relating to their studies with appropriate members of staff and agree a support 
plan. 
 
Partners, adopters and guardians 
Students who are taking on parental responsibilities but are not themselves pregnant may need 
additional support and may need to make special arrangements for their studies. The level of 
support, length of absences and level of flexibility needed will depend on the specific 
circumstances of the student concerned.  
 
Termination and Miscarriage  
The University is committed to working with medical and other agencies in ensuring that students 
who have experienced a termination or miscarriage are appropriately supported.  The University 
recognises that students may be in need of support on a short or long term basis. It is recognised 
that some students may not wish to inform the University, and they are not obliged to do so.

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
For more information on absence, and what to do if circumstances have affected academic 
performance, see the section “Academic and Practical Considerations and Student Wellbeing” on 
page 5 of this guidance. 
 
What students should do 
Students should normally inform an appropriate member of staff in their Faculty as soon as they 
can about an issue covered by this guidance that may affect their studies. An appropriate 
member of staff would normally be an Adviser of Studies, Course Director, Research Supervisor 
or senior member of Faculty support staff. 
 
If a student does not feel ready or able to discuss their situation with an appropriate member of 
Faculty staff, he or she may wish instead to speak in the first instance to one of the University’s 
support services – Student Counselling, Student Health, the Chaplaincy or the  Advice Centre. 
Advice can also be sought from the USSA Advice Hub. 
 
Students who have experienced a miscarriage or termination are not obliged to inform the 
University but are encouraged to do so in order that appropriate support can be offered and the 
effect of this experience on studies can be considered. 
What the Faculty should do  
Appropriate members of staff should discuss with the student appropriate adjustments to study 
arrangements to support the student.  
 
In the case of a student whose pregnancy is progressing or who has recently given birth, the 
support plan template in Appendix 2 may be used. The student should receive a copy of the 
written plan, as well as other appropriate members of staff requiring this information (including, 
where required, Conveners of Examination Boards). Staff must seek permission from the student 
before sharing information with other staff.  The appropriate staff within the Faculty should also 
make an appropriate risk assessment in consultation with Safety Services.  
 
Staff should remind students of relevant support services available on campus and note and 
record the information provided by the student on their circumstances. Relevant staff should be 
informed on a need to know basis to ensure that appropriate support is provided to the student 
without the need to ask intrusive questions. 
 
What Professional Services should do 
The University does not provide medical services or specialist pregnancy and maternity services. 
It does however provide support services that can assist students in matters of pregnancy, 
maternity, paternity and adoption.  
 
In addition to advice and support on academic matters provided by the student’s Faculty, School 
or Department, sources of support and advice available to all students include the Advice Centre, 
Student Health, Student Counselling service, Chaplaincy, Disability Service and The Advice Hub 
at the Students Association. 
 
Student Experience staff should ensure that correct information is recorded about student’s 
circumstances and this is only shared with relevant staff on a need to know basis.

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
 
5. Academic and Practical Considerations and Student Wellbeing 
Cultural, ethical, religious and personal attitudes to pregnancy, maternity, paternity and adoption 
vary widely. It is of the utmost importance that staff deal with these matters in a non-judgemental 
manner, supporting and allowing the student to identify their own personal priorities. 
Academic performance and study arrangements 
Matters covered in this guidance may have an impact on academic performance. Any student 
who believes that their performance in assessments or examinations has been affected by 
medical or personal circumstances should follow the University’s procedure for Absence and 
Personal Circumstances detailed at 
www.strath.ac.uk/studentlifecycle/absencepersonalcircumstances/.  
Medical and other supporting evidence should be submitted to Student Business in the McCance 
building along with a Personal Circumstances form. 
In addition to formal study arrangements, staff should also give consideration to day to day 
arrangements for the support of students who are pregnant or have recently given birth. For 
example, permission to leave classes if feeling unwell and access to a quiet seated area close to 
classes or labs for students who may be fatigued. 
Health and Safety  
Safety Services can advise on assessing Health and Safety risk. The University’s Local Rule 
on New and Expectant Mothers also provides guidance: 
www.strath.ac.uk/media/ps/humanresources/occhealth/Local_Rules_for_New_and_Expectant_M
others.pdf  
 
Pregnancy is a changing condition and risk assessments may be required on more than one 
occasion as conditions change with the progression of pregnancy. 
 
It should be noted that students will not be permitted to take part in field work or study abroad after 
the 7th month of pregnancy.   
 
A student must not return to University within two weeks of giving birth for health and safety 
reasons.  
 
Resuming studies  
If a student has suspended studies, they must inform the appropriate member of staff within the 
Faculty when ready to resume studies.  A timetable for re-integration into the programme of 
study, including the examination schedule, should be part of the student’s support plan.  
 
Students must also inform the Student Business team prior to resumption of study, ensuring that 
a doctor’s note is provided as evidence of fit to return to the University. The University record will 
then be updated to indicate that you are back on your programme of study. 
Financial Considerations  
Students should seek advice regarding implications for student loans or awards (such as 
bursaries or scholarships) from the Student Financial Support Team in the Advice 
Centre.  Further advice regarding entitlement to state benefits should be sought The Advice Hub 
at the Student Union.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
The University refund policy covers refunds of tuition fees for self-funded or privately sponsored 
students who suspend study. Students in this situation should approach Student Business team 
for further information.  
 
Undergraduate students should note that funding will usually stop when a suspension of study 
begins.  
 
Students funded by the Student Awards Agency for Scotland (SAAS: www.saas.gov.uk/) must 
inform SAAS of their circumstances should they decide to take time out from their studies. SAAS 
will be able to advise on possible future eligibility. Rest of UK-domiciled students should seek 
advice from their relevant funding body (see Appendix 1 sources of information and help).  
 
Students should note that if they are required to extend period of study this may have 
implications for their funding and this should be clarified with the relevant funding body before 
deciding on a course of action. Further advice is available from the Advice Centre or from The 
Advice Hub at the Student Union. 
 
Postgraduate and Research students receiving funding from external bodies should follow the 
guidance for their particular scheme, or contact their funding body or sponsor for further advice.  
Students on University of Strathclyde scholarships should contact their scholarship administrator.  
 
International students with financial sponsors must contact their sponsors and agree a plan of 
action (such as deferring study and when to resume study).  
 
Some scholarship providers may have a provision for maternity payments for students. 
Immigration Considerations for International Students 
Students who are subject to immigration control should seek advice from the Advice Centre at an 
early stage about the immigration implications of their pregnancy, financial entitlements and 
taking time out of their course. It should be remembered that most airlines will not carry 
passengers who are 7 months pregnant or more, and this should be taken into account when 
planning. 
Accommodation (Halls of Residence) 
If a student becomes pregnant whilst living in University accommodation, she may find that this is 
no longer suitable for personal or health and safety reasons. She should contact the 
Accommodation Office and/or the USSA Advice Hub for advice and/or to transfer to more 
suitable accommodation.  
 
Students whose pregnancy is continuing are encouraged to disclose  their pregnancy to their Hall 
Manager if they are concerned that they may require support in an emergency situation, such as 
early labour. 
Babies/Children on Campus 
For health and safety reasons, as well as to avoid the disruption of classes or study, babies and 
children must not be brought into teaching or learning areas. Students may bring babies and 
children into public areas on campus, but the University cannot accept any liability for the child in 
these circumstances.  
 
Students should ensure that suitable childcare arrangements are in place at times when they are 
expected to be at University. Students can apply to the University Nursery for a place, although 
these are limited.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
 
Rest facilities, breast feeding and baby changing  
The University does not currently have special facilities for expressing milk or changing babies. 
There are however a number of welfare rooms on campus which may be appropriate for resting, 
nursing and baby changing.  
 
A list of these rooms is provided in Appendix 3. Departments and Schools may wish to consider 
additional local facilities for a specific student. 
 
The University is committed to improving provision of baby changing facilities as part of the 
Estates development plans.  
 
6. Support for partners (including same-sex partners) who have responsibility for bringing 
up the child  
 
Any partner of a pregnant student or those adopting, who expects to be involved with raising the 
child, will be entitled to request time out of studies. This is likely to include time off for medical 
appointments prior to, and after, the birth, as well as a period of maternity support leave 
immediately following the birth.  
 
A student in this situation should contact Advisor of Study/ Academic Counsellor, Supervisor or 
other relevant staff member, to discuss and agree option. The University is committed to 
providing support. Flexibility will be applied where possible although this will necessarily be more 
limited in some programmes of study than others.  
 
Postgraduate students receiving research funding should contact their sponsor or provider prior 
to arranging period of leave.  
 
7.  Students becoming parents through adoption  
 
Students about to become parents through adoption should inform the Department/ School of 
their circumstances as soon as possible. Arrangements can be made to allow time out of study. 
This may vary depending on the age of the child, the programme of study being undertaken, and 
the point in the academic session at which the adoption takes place. The Advisor of Study/ 
Academic Counsellor or Supervisor will agree the period of absence. 
 
8. Complaints  
 
A student may raise a complaint where s/he is dissatisfied with the flexibility offered and believes 
the University has failed to live up to the standards of this guidance and legal rights.  
 
Please read the student Complaints Procedure online:                                                                  
www.strath.ac.uk/media/ps/humanresources/policies/student_complaints.pdf

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
Appendix 1: Sources of help and information  
 
For Emergency assistance or First Aid on campus: Telephone University Security Control on 
extension 2222 (0141 548 2222)  
 
If outside of campus – call an ambulance by dialling free phone 999. 
 
For medical advice if your GP’s surgery is closed, call NHS 24 on 111 
 
Advice on Pregnancy and Reproductive Health 
Students can contact their own GP service for advice on pregnancy and reproductive health issues 
or they can use these services: 
 
Sexual Health Scotland www.sexualhealthscotland.co.uk/pregnancy  
 
The Sandyford Initiative 
 
www.sandyford.org 
 
0141 211 8130 
   
 
Childcare 
University Nursery www.strath.ac.uk/staff/wellbeing/nursery/ 0141 553 4125 
Other childcare providers  
 
Advice, support and 
counselling  
www.scottishchildcare.gov.uk  
Advice Centre Student Financial 
Support Team 
www.strath.ac.uk/studentfinancialsupport/ 0141 548 2753 
Advice Centre, Information and 
Advice Team 
www.strath.ac.uk/sees/infoint/ 
 
0141 548 4273 
USSA Advice Hub www.strathstudents.com/advicehub 0141 567 5042/ 5043 
Chaplaincy www.strath.ac.uk/chaplaincy 0141 548 4144 
Student Counselling  www.strath.ac.uk/studentcounselling 0141 548 3510 
University Accommodation www.strath.ac.uk/accommodation 0141 548 3561 
Student Health Service www.strath.ac.uk/studenthealth/ 0141 548 3916      
Adoption UK www.adoptionuk.org.uk 0844 848 7900 
One Parent Families Scotland www.opfs.org.uk 0808 801 0323 
 
Health and Safety  
University Safety Services www.strath.ac.uk/safetyservices/   0141 548 2726 
Government Health and Safety 
Executive 
www.hse.gov.uk/mothers/

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 
 
Appendix 2 : Student Support Plan1  
 
This form aims to guide discussions with students during pregnancy and maternity. It should be 
completed by the appropriate staff within the Faculty and agreed with the student. It is not 
intended that all the form should be completed at a first meeting as initially a student will be 
unable – and should not be expected – to respond to all the issues raised.  
 
The form should be reviewed at key stages (e.g. 16 weeks pregnant, 24 weeks pregnant, and 
prior to return to study); or at key points of the academic year (e.g. prior to examinations and field 
trips). If the student’s circumstances change, the plan will need to be reviewed. 
 
Contact details 
1 Student’s details 
Name  
 
Address  
 
Telephone  
 
Email address  
 
Student number  
 
2 
 
Emergency contact’s details 
Relationship to student  
Telephone  
3 Course details 
Course title  
Year of course  
Department/ School/ Faculty  
Department/ School/ Faculty 
contact 
 
 
Key dates (to be reviewed and added to over the course of pregnancy and maternity) 
 
4 
 
What is the student’s due date?  
 
Communication with the student 
 
6 
 
What is the student’s preferred method of communication? 
 
During pregnancy  
                                            
1 www.ecu.ac.uk/publications/files/student-pregnancy-and-maternity-implications-for-heis.doc/at_download/file

--- PAGE 10 ---

10 
  
During maternity-related absence  
 
On return to study  
 
Informing other staff and students 
 
7 
 
Who will need to be informed about the student’s pregnancy and when would the 
student 
Like them to be informed?  
Name and title 
 
Date 
  
 
Health and safety assessment (attach copy to this form) 
 
8 
 
Has a risk assessment been conducted that covers (where relevant): 
 
The student’s course  
 
Course placements or study abroad  
 
Examinations or other assessments  
 
Field trips  
 
Return from maternity-related absence  
 
Breastfeeding  
 
9 
 
Where changes are required to alleviate or 
minimise risks, which is responsible for ensuring 
they are implemented? 
 
 
Pregnancy-related absence 
 
10 
 
Will the dates or times of antenatal appointments 
Affect the student’s study? 
 
 
11 
 
Have you d iscussed an y pregnancy-related 
illness that h as affected the student’s ab ility to 
undertake the course? 
 
 
12 
 
If yes what arrangements have been made to 
enable the student to catch up? 
 
 
Assessments 
 
13 
 
Is the student unable to complete any course work 
or assessments due to her pregnancy or 
maternity? If so, provide details: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
What alternative arrangements have been made for 
Any outstanding or incomplete assessments?

--- PAGE 11 ---

11 
 
15 
 
Will the student need special arrangements for 
any formal examinations she is due to sit? 
 
 
Maternity-related absence (students should provide information in writing at least 15 
weeks before their due date) 
 
16 
 
When does the student intend to start 
maternity- related absence? 
 
 
17 
 
When does the student intend to return 
from maternity-related absence? 
 
 
18 
 
What information will the student require 
during maternity-related absence to keep up 
to date on course developments? 
 
 
19 
 
Who will be responsible for providing the 
information to the student? 
 
 
International students/ those on placement abroad 
 
20 
 
Have international students or students on placement abroad been informed about: 
 
Possible airline restrictions?  
 
The need to check visa implications of returning 
home or extending their stay due to pregnancy 
and maternity? 
 
  
Students on placement 
 
21 
 
Has the placement provider been notified of the 
student’s pregnancy? 
 
 
22 
 
Is the placement provider aware of the 
University’s guidance on supporting students 
during pregnancy and maternity? 
 
 
23 
 
Will the student be able to complete her 
placement? If not what alternative arrangements 
will be made? 
 
 
24 
 
Who is responsible for liaising with the 
placement provider? 
 
 
Mitigating circumstances 
 
25 
 
Have students been informed about the 
University’s mitigating circumstances 
arrangements in the event that their pregnancy or 
maternity affects examinations and assessments?

--- PAGE 12 ---

12 
 
 
  
 
Return to study 
 
26 
 
What support will be provided to the student on 
their return to study? (e.g. meetings with key staff 
etc) 
 
 
Signatures 
 
Plan to be reviewed on  
 
Agreed by staff member 
 
Name  
 
Title  
 
Signature  
 
Date  
 
Agreed by student 
 
Name  
 
Signature  
  
 Date

--- PAGE 13 ---

13 
Appendix 3:  Welfare Room facilities on campus  
 
The University has a number of rooms available which may be used for first aid, rest and 
recuperation and breastfeeding. 
 
Departments/ Schools may wish to make additional local arrangements for a student, in 
consultation with Safety Services.  
 
Building  Room Number 
Colville Building 409 
Curran Building 417 
Hamnett Wing Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy 
and Biomedical Science 
214 
John Anderson Building 510a 
Livingstone Tower  217, 218, 220 
Royal College Building 201, 201a 
Stenhouse Building 106 
Students' Union 106 
Centre for Sport and Recreation  221