--- PAGE 1 ---

2 | Page
Strath Union & University of Strathclyde 
Stu
dent Academic Representation Policy 
1 I
ntroduction 
The StrathReps project is transforming student representation at University of Strathclyde by 
allowing students to stand in elections, elect candidates and easily contact their representatives 
through the Strathclyde app. It is a technological solution to support an efficient and effective 
process for identifying, engaging, receiving, and acting on student feedback through 
representatives. This aims to standardise processes across University departments/ schools and 
reduce staff admin time  whilst amplifying the student voice on campus for the improvement of 
their learning environment. 
Class representatives were elected for each individual class in session 2019/20, these are now 
being replaced with programme representatives. Programme representatives will represent all of 
the modules  within their programme. There will be the same number of programme 
representatives as there were class representatives. The reasoning for changing from class 
representative to programme representative is in line with the U niversity’s model of programme 
and modules. The changes to the representation structure will ensure that each student has a 
minimum of two representatives: programme and faculty rep.  
a) The U
niversity of Strathclyde’s Student Representation Policy is a collaboration between
the University and Strath Union. This policy outlines the joint commitment between the
University and Strath Union to ensure the provision of an effective student representation
s
ystem that allows the student voice to be heard and for students to be represented.
b) Thi
s policy will provide clear definitions  of the different student representatives and their
responsibilities.
c) Thi
s will also map out clear structures for engagement between reps and university
structures(staff).
d) Th
is policy builds upon the joint agreement stated in the Student Partnership Agreement.

--- PAGE 2 ---

3 | Page
2 Governance

--- PAGE 3 ---

4 | Page
a) Using the structures listed, students can share their feedback with representatives who
then 
deliver this to staff in committee meetings. Students can also give direct feedback
using module evaluations and National Student Survey.
b) Thi
s policy complements the Strath Union Strategic Plan  and University of Strathclyde
Strategic Plan by amplifying and incorporating the student voice into decisions made
at University of Strathclyde.
c) S
tudent Staff Liaison Committees (SSLC) have been set up as a recognised channel
of communication between students and the University Authorities (University
Ordinances 5.1.1).
d) The S
cottish Quality Enhancement Framework  relies on student engagement i n
processes such as Enhancement-led Institutional Review (ELIR) and Institutional -led
Rev
iews for the continuous improvement of the student experience.
3 Student Representative Groups 
a) S
trathReps refers to all student representatives at University of Strathclyde.
b) S
tudent Executive Team represent all students at University of Strathclyde in their
respective areas of expertise and consists of six sabbatical officers.
- President
- V
ice President Community (VPC)
- Vice President Education (VPE)
- Vice President Inclusion (VPI)
- Vice President Sport (VPS)
- Vice President Welfare (VPW)
S
trath Union President leads the student executive team and is the main representative 
of student views for the U niversity. However, the president works in partnership with all 
members of the student executive team to ensure the student views carried forward are 
representative of the entire student population at University of Strathclyde. Sabbatical 
officers strategically allocate themselves to U niversity committees to ensure there is 
student input in decision making. All six members of the student executive team have 
seats on University Senate and Student Experience Committee each year.  
c) Facult
y Representatives represent all students in their faculty. Any current student within
the fac
ulty is eligible to stand for this. It is however encouraged that they would hav e the
pr
ior experience of being a representative. Faculty representatives are supported by
Strath Union staff and the Vice President Education to enable them to effectively represent
al
l students and help them manage the department/ school / programme representatives

--- PAGE 4 ---

5 | Page  
  
within their faculty . Faculty reps will work closely with the Vice Dean Academic who will 
chair the faculty level committee meetings they attend. Faculty reps are supported by 
department/ school  and programme reps who give them regular feedback on issues 
across the entire faculty to ensure they represent all student views.  
 
Faculty representatives have additional duties in University level committees and serve as 
additional sources of student voice where it is imperative to the improvement of the student 
experience. Faculty reps hold a seat on University Senate and Student Experience 
Committee, alongside the six sabbatical officers . The role of the faculty representative is 
to enhance the learning experience, support information exchange and foster a culture of 
open communication between staff and students.  
 
Elections of the faculty reps takes place in March, at the same time as the election of the 
sabbatical officers, and they hold office for one year but are able to stand for re-election.  
 
Faculty representatives are ambassadors for the student representation system and often 
participate in events which encourage students to share their views or experiences and 
use this information to inform faculty/university level meetings.  
 
d) Departmental / School Representatives represent all students in their department or 
school. Department / school reps liaise with programme teams and faculty to address 
issues of concern to students where these cut across more than one module or different 
years of study. Department/ school reps will be supported by Strath Union, VP Education 
and their Faculty rep to help them manage programme reps within their department/ 
school and co-ordinate feedback. Department/ school  reps are not required to sit on 
faculty level committees but their consultation could be advised when making changes 
relevant to their area. Department/ school  reps support programme representatives and 
help co-ordinate feedback between the department/ school and their students.  
 
Department/ school reps were introduced formally in 2019/2020 and are therefore 
relatively new to the University structures and committees. It is advised that departmental/ 
school reps work closely with the Head of Department/ School to provide regular feedback 
and sharing of information whilst attending Student Staff Liaison Committees and other 
department/ school level consultations.  
 
e) Programme Representatives represent all students in the year of their programme. They 
serve as the first point of call for students with issues  within their programme. These 
include representatives for part-time, graduate apprentices, degree apprentices and 
distance learners. Programme representatives were previously referred to as class 
representatives, programme representatives therefore represent all modules they study.  
 
Programme representatives will work closely with programme and module leaders to 
resolve issues and provide feedback for the modules within their programme.

--- PAGE 5 ---

6 | Page  
  
f) Student Academic Representatives refers to student reps who primarily advocate and 
support students on academic and related issues such as assessment and feedback, 
timetabling amongst others. Examples of academic reps include: Faculty, Departmental / 
School, Post-Graduate Research, Graduate Apprenticeship and P rogramme 
Representatives. 
 
g) Postgraduate representative is elected each year in the Strath Union elections by all 
postgraduate students. The postgraduate representative will represent all postgraduate 
students at University of Strathclyde (postgraduate taught and postgraduate research). 
 
h) Post-Graduate Research (PGR) Representatives: Similar to programme reps, they 
represent post graduate research students within their research group or department / 
school. PGR representatives work closely with the Doctoral Research Group.  
 
i) Liberation representatives such as BAME rep, disabled students’ rep, LGBT+ rep and 
women’s rep work closely with faculty reps and executive officers to ensure the work they 
carry out is inclusive of students with protected characteristics. These reps also have a 
seat on Student Parliament and represent their students on various working groups within 
the University. Liberation representatives are managed by the Vice President Inclusion. 
 
j) Other representatives at Strath Union include mature students’ rep, part time students’ 
rep, interfaith rep, democracy convene r and international students’ rep. These 
representatives hold a seat on student parliament and liaise with other representatives to 
ensure their students needs are met by the University and Strath Union.  
 
4 Guiding Principles 
 
a) All students will have at least one Programme Representative and one Faculty 
Representative as a minimum for academic representation. 
 
b) Any elections run should be fair and transparent.  
 
c) All eligible students should be able to stand for election. 
 
d) Election of all representatives  should support and encourage equality, diversity, and 
inclusion. 
 
e) If only two students come forward for a programme which requires two representativ es 
then an election will not be triggered and these students will be registered once the 
nomination period ends. If over the required number of representatives nominate 
themselves for the role then an election will be triggered.  
 
f) The number of representatives needed per programme year will depend on the number 
of students within it. This can be determined using the following ratios:

--- PAGE 6 ---

7 | Page  
  
- 0-49 students – two reps  
- 49 -100 students – three reps  
- 101-149 students – four reps 
- 150+ students – five reps 
 
g) Strath Union is responsible for providing training and support for any StrathReps. 
 
h) The University of Strathclyde is committed to engaging with student feedback in order to 
monitor and enhance the quality of the student experience. Feedback gathered via the 
StrathReps app function will signpost students to representatives  who attend 
departmental/ school  Student Staff Liaison Committees (SSLCs) and share student 
feedback. 
 
i) Responsibility for closing the feedback loop with students  is shared between those in 
receipt of the feedback e.g. department/ school  and relevant representatives to inform 
those concerned of the progress made. 
 
j) Strath Union is committed to provide training, support, and facilitate the process by which 
Programme Representatives can embody and engage student’s feedback to improve their 
overall experience at university. 
 
k) The University of Strathclyde is committed to respect and value the input of StrathReps at 
relevant meetings and discussions. 
 
l) This Policy will be reviewed after StrathReps launch in 202 1/2022 by student executive 
team, Student Experience Committee, Strath Union and with input from student 
representatives.  
 
5 Representative structures 
 
The diagram below outlines the ways in which the above-named representatives  liaise with the 
University community to represent the student voice. 
 
STRATH REP LEVEL UNIVERSITY STRUCTURE 
Student executive Institutional Attend University Court, University Senate, Student 
Experience Committee, executive team  meetings and 
university level committees. 
 
Vice President Education is responsible for managing all 
academic representatives named in this document and 
guiding them on how to manage other reps.

--- PAGE 7 ---

8 | Page  
  
Faculty reps Faculty and Institutional  Responsible for managing department / school  reps 
within their faculty and collating feedback to take to 
faculty level meetings. They are also responsible for 
relaying feedback from faculty meetings to department/ 
school and programme reps.  
 
Attend Student Experience Committee, Senate, Doctoral 
School Management Board, Faculty Academic 
Committees (FAC), Faculty L earning Enhancement 
Committees (FLEC). 
Department reps Department/ school Responsible for managing programme reps within their 
department/ school  and collating feedback to take to 
department/ school   level meetings. They are also 
responsible for relaying feedback from department/ 
school meetings to faculty and programme reps.  
 
Attend department/ school level meetings such as SSLC 
and attend FAC or FLEC (on occasion as recommended 
by Faculty rep). 
Programme reps Class and Module  Attend SSLC, liaise with Coordinators and 
Administrators, Programme leaders and lecturers. 
 
6 Student Academic Representative Elections  
 
Elections will take place within the Strathclyde app during the formal election periods. Students 
will be prompted by notifications within the app to inform them that they are eligible to nominate 
themselves for elections. The nomination period will last for roughly one week before the election 
period is opened. During the elections, students will be able to vote for their chosen candidate in 
all roles for which they are eligible to vote.  
 
Once voting has closed then the successful candidate will be notifi ed and their details will be 
displayed to the students they represent to allow for effective and easy communication between 
students and their representatives.  
 
In some circumstances programme representatives may need to be elected outside normal 
election periods and therefore the programme leader would need to contact 
Strathreps-
project@strath.ac.uk to explain why they will be unable to participate in normal election 
schedules. Offline elections can be accommodated in exceptional circumstances and where the 
student data or timing may not facilitate online elections. Offline and exceptional elections would 
also need approval from the StrathReps Project Team  which consists of representatives from 
university staff, student executive and Strath Union staff who can be reached on the above email.

--- PAGE 8 ---

9 | Page  
  
Elections should be kept within the app and during election periods as much as possible to avoid 
confusion and maximise the number of students voting for their representative. 
 
For more information on student representation, elections and SSLCs please go to 
https://www.strathunion.com/voice/studentreps/
 .