--- PAGE 1 ---

Student submits an appeal 
 
 
No 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STUDENT DISCIPLINE 
PROCEDURE: NON- 
ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A procedure for 
managing instances 
of Non-academic 
Misconduct 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate Academic year 
2022/23 
onwards 
2.0 Incorporating minor 
amendments to the 
Procedure.  
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate Academic year 
2023/24 onwards 
3.0 Incorporating minor 
amendments to the 
Procedure.  
Education 
Enhancement  
Senate Academic Year 
2024/25 onwards 
 
 
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263 
 
Appeals Panel 
takes place 
 
Version 3.0

--- PAGE 2 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Contents 
TABLE OF CONTENTS .............................................................................................1  
INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................2  
SCOPE .......................................................................................................................3  
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND STANDARD OF PROOF ...........................................4 
EXAMPLES OF NON-ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT ....................................................5 
PROCEDURAL STEPS ..............................................................................................6  
EARLY INTERVENTION/CAUTION ...........................................................................7  
STAGE 1: MISCONDUCT OFFICER CONSIDERATION ............................................8 
STAGE 2: SENATE DISCIPLINE COMMITTEE ...................................................... 11 
RIGHT TO APPEAL .................................................................................................  14 
Appeals Against Stage 1 Outcomes ....................................................................... 14 
Appeals Against Stage 2 Outcomes ....................................................................... 15 
ANNEX 1 - ROLES ................................................................................................... 18 
ANNEX 2 – DEFINITIONS ....................................................................................... 20

--- PAGE 3 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
2 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
1. All students of the University are subject to the jurisdiction of the Senate, both for their studies 
and for their conduct. The University’s Charter decrees that Senate is responsible for the 
academic work of the University, in teaching, in research and in knowledge exchange, and for 
the regulation and superintendence of the education and discipline of the students of the 
University (Charter 8). 
 
2. Senate membership comprises the Principal, Vice Principal, Associate Principals, Executive 
Deans, Heads of Academic Departments/Schools, student representatives elected by students 
of the University, and elected academic professional services staff elected by the academic 
professional staff of the University. The powers vested in Senate by the Charter and Statutes 
are confirmed in Statute 3.6 
and include ‘to regulate the discipline of the students of the 
University’ (Statute 3.6.13). 
 
3. When students register at the University, they agree to abide by the University’s constitutional 
regulations, academic regulations, policies, procedures, codes of practice and guidance (known 
collectively within this Procedure as ‘Regulations’). In cases where there is evidence to suggest 
that the Regulations may have been breached, Senate delegates authority for initial 
consideration of allegations of Non-academic Misconduct to Departments (as outlined in Annex 
2, the term ‘Department’ in this Procedure refers to Academic Department/School/Centre, 
Faculty, Directorate or Service). Some of these cases are escalated to Senate and may be 
heard by a Senate Discipline Committee (see paragraph 
52 onwards) and, upon appeal, a 
Senate Discipline Appeals Board (see paragraph 69 onwards). Senate delegates its powers to: 
 
a. Departments to impose all penalties listed in paragraph 32; 
b. Misconduct Officers to impose all penalties listed in paragraphs 32 and 47; 
c. A Senate Discipline Committee and a Senate Discipline Appeals Board to impose all 
penalties listed in paragraphs 32, 47 and 65. 
 
4. These penalties will be imposed without referral to Senate for approval, although Senate does 
receive anonymised reports on outcomes of cases at Stage 2 (see paragraph 95). 
 
5. To operate effectively, all organisations need to set standards of conduct to which their 
members are expected to adhere. This Student Discipline Procedure (the “Procedure”) focuses 
on Non-academic Misconduct and sets out the University of Strathclyde’s approach to reporting, 
investigating and responding to alleged breaches of University Regulations (as hereinafter 
defined) relating to Non-academic Misconduct, by students of the University. It also sets out the 
penalties that may be incurred because of a breach of Regulations. Annexes 1 and 2 
provide a 
list of roles and definitions, respectively, referred to within this Procedure. 
 
6. It is important to note that this Procedure does not constitute a legal or criminal process, 
however the Procedure is underpinned by the relationship, signed at registration, between the 
University and the student. 
 
7. For the duration of the implementation of this Procedure, Reported Students will normally be 
allowed to continue their studies. If the Reported Student’s behaviour is negatively impacting on 
other students and staff, either in terms of disruption or in a manner in which raises safety 
concerns (both for the Reported Student or anyone else), the Reported Student may be

--- PAGE 4 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
3 
 
 
 
restricted, at any stage in this Procedure, from accessing University services, buildings and/or 
other property, as a precautionary measure. 
 
8. Guidance for staff on this Procedure is available from the Senate Office. The Strath Union 
Advice Hub of fers independent advice and guidance to students on this Procedure and related 
matters. 
 
9. Allegations of Academic Misconduct, i.e. those that are linked to academic integrity rather than 
behaviour, are managed through the Student Discipline Procedure: Academic Misconduct. If 
allegations of both types of misconduct are made against a student, the two procedures will 
normally be followed concurrently. In some cases, multiple inquiries may converge at the 
discretion of Misconduct Officers and, in cases that have been escalated to a Senate Discipline 
Committee, at the discretion of the University Secretary (or nominee). 
 
10. If a case of Non-academic Misconduct is raised, or is already in process, for a student whose 
graduation could be imminent, the student may be prevented from graduating while the case is 
under consideration. Consequently, the award will be made (if eligible) once the case is 
concluded. 
 
11. In implementing this Procedure, the University will remain mindful of its duty of care in respect 
of the confidential and sensitive nature of disciplinary matters. It will also observe its obligations 
under the Data Protection Act 2018/General Data Protection Regulation
. All University staff, 
students, Professional Advisors, Representatives/Supporters of Reported Students, and 
witnesses involved in any allegation of Non-academic Misconduct have a duty to the Reported 
Student, Reporting Person and to any witnesses or others providing evidence, to limit any or all 
disclosure. This is crucial both for the Reported Student’s and, where applicable, the Reporting 
Person’s, wellbeing, and to ensure that potential criminal proceedings are not prejudiced. The 
Reported Student is also expected to respect the confidentiality of the process. It is of course 
reasonable for Reported Students to discuss the disciplinary process with family and close 
friends. 
 
SCOPE 
12. This Procedure applies to any allegation of Non-academic Misconduct levelled at a registered 
student, whether taking place on or off the University of Strathclyde campus, including within 
halls of residence, face to face, by writing or in written, spoken or electronic communications 
including social media. This also applies to students undertaking a professional placement, 
undertaking non credit-bearing modules within the Centre for Lifelong Learning, studying by 
distance learning, by blended learning or studying at another institution (e.g. through an 
exchange or on a collaborative programme). 
 
13. In exceptional cases, the University may decide to hold a hearing for a student previously 
registered at the University of Strathclyde. This will be in cases where a decision relating to the 
award of the University is required, in relation to Non-academic Misconduct, despite the student 
no longer being registered at the University. 
 
14. For students registered at the University who are studying at another institution, the allegation of 
Non-academic Misconduct is usually considered by the Host Institution, but this does not 
preclude input from the University of Strathclyde in cases where it is not the Host Institution. Nor 
does it prevent the University of Strathclyde from undertaking its own separate investigation

--- PAGE 5 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
4 
 
 
under this Procedure and applying appropriate penalties as it sees fit. 
 
15. The University reserves the right to continue to consider and conclude a disciplinary case in a 
Reported Student’s absence if they choose to withdraw from the University while the case is 
being considered. Reported Students whose registration is withdrawn by the University will not 
normally be taken through this Procedure, (unless in the exceptional circumstances outlined in 
paragraph 13). In cases where Reported Students are appealing a withdrawal from studies by 
the University of Strathclyde at Stage 1 or Stage 2 of the Academic Appeals Procedure, any 
discipline process under this Procedure will be put into abeyance until such appeals process is 
concluded. If the Reported Student is allowed to resume registration, any discipline process 
under this Procedure will recommence at the stage at which it was put into abeyance. 
 
16. If the University uncovers further incidence(s) of misconduct from previous years of study, it has 
the right to withhold or re-classify a student’s award (or re-consider progression). 
 
17. In some cases, where contravention of the Regulations leads to concerns regarding a Reported 
Student’s fitness to practise, the University may, separately from this Procedure, implement a 
Fitness to Practise procedure. If a Reported Student is involved in a Fitness to Practise hearing 
or follow up action plan, the University Secretary (or nominee) reserves the right to postpone 
any concurrent disciplinary processes, under this Procedure, whilst these matters are 
concluded. It is important to note that a decision to halt a disciplinary process for this reason will 
only be taken to benefit the Reported Student. 
 
18. This Procedure has an associated right to appeal, set out in paragraph 66 onwards below. 
Reported Students also have the right to make a complaint at any point in the disciplinary 
process under this Procedure, through the University’s Complaints Handling Procedure. 
 
19. Strath Union has procedures for addressing discipline-related issues within their premises and 
under the auspices of Strath Union activity, such as societies, sports clubs and Strath Union 
meetings. However, such matters may also be referred to the University for consideration under 
this Procedure. 
 
20. Reported Students who consider they have a disability or condition that affects their ability to 
engage with the disciplinary processes under this Procedure should disclose this to the 
Misconduct Officer or Senate Office, as appropriate, with relevant evidence provided to allow for 
an assessment and, where found applicable, for a reasonable adjustment to be made during the 
handling of the case. Advice and support can be sought from the Disability & Wellbeing Service
. 
 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND STANDARD OF PROOF 
21. There may be instances where an alleged act of Non-academic Misconduct may also constitute 
a criminal offence, for example theft of work, fraud etc. It is important to note that the nature and 
scope of an internal University disciplinary process, under this Procedure, and the nature and 
scope of a criminal process are fundamentally different. Any disciplinary process is a civil matter 
where the alleged Non-academic Misconduct is more likely than not to have occurred. In 
contrast, the criminal process is an external procedure and the standard of proof for the 
allegation to be proven is beyond reasonable doubt. 
 
22. Where the University of Strathclyde has reason to consider that a crime may have been 
committed, the University/University Secretary reserves the right to report the matter to the 
police and/or other appropriate UK authority. The University’s 
Procedure for Managing Students

--- PAGE 6 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
5 
 
 
with Criminal Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions confirms arrangements for declaring 
unspent criminal convictions and charges pending trial. 
 
23. Where an alleged case of Non-academic Misconduct is subject to criminal or civil legal 
proceedings, the University may: 
 
a. Decide to hold in abeyance any relevant disciplinary process under this Procedure until 
such time as the legal proceedings have concluded; 
b. Take advice as is appropriate to ensure University investigations do not prejudice 
judicial process; 
c. Impose restricted access to University services, buildings and other property on the 
basis of ensuring the safety and wellbeing of the Reported Student and other students 
and staff. 
 
24. Where any disciplinary process under this Procedure has been put in abeyance pending the 
outcome of criminal or civil legal proceedings, the Reported Student has an obligation to keep 
the University informed, in writing, of the progress of those legal proceedings, and to confirm the 
outcome of any such proceedings within one week of conclusion, as detailed in the University’s 
Procedure for Managing Students with Criminal Proceedings or Unspent Criminal Convictions
. 
 
25. If a Reported Student is convicted of a related criminal offence, then this conviction can be 
relied upon to establish a disciplinary offence. If a Reported Student is found not guilty of a 
criminal offence or the case is not proven, the University can still take disciplinary action against 
the Reported Student if there is sufficient evidence that a breach of the Regulations occurred. 
 
EXAMPLES OF NON-ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT 
26. Non-academic Misconduct may occur directly, indirectly, individually, collectively, in person 
and/or by spoken, electronic and remote communications, including via social media. For the 
purposes of this Procedure, Non-academic Misconduct includes, but is not limited to, any of the 
following examples, or a combination of these examples: 
 
a. Disruption of, or improper interference with, the academic, administrative, sporting, 
social or other activities of the University, including offensive behaviour, whether on 
University premises or elsewhere; 
b. Obstruction of, or improper interference with, the functions, duties or activities of any 
student, member of staff or other employee of the University or any authorised visitor to 
the University; 
c. Behaviour that brings the University into disrepute, including instances where comments 
or other actions have been published or reported, which are attributable to the Reported 
Student; 
d. Intentional or reckless damage to, or defacement of, University property or the property of 
the University and community; 
e. Misuse or unauthorised use of University premises, facilities or items of property; 
f. Failure to disclose name and other relevant details to an officer or employee of the 
University in circumstances when it is reasonable to require that such information is 
given; 
g. Distribution of promotional material on University premises without prior approval. For 
example, the University will not tolerate the distribution of promotional material that 
encourages excessive alcohol consumption; 
h. Failure to treat others (students, staff, neighbours and other people within the

--- PAGE 7 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
6 
 
 
community) with respect, as outlined in the University’s Dignity and Respect Policy. This 
applies to all communication methods including, but not limited to, personal contact, 
email, written communication, online communication, social media activity (see Student 
Guidance on the Use of Social Media and Virtual Learning Environments) or  soc ial 
community websites; 
i. Acts of dishonesty, including theft, deceit or deception in relation to the University, 
University documentation, its staff or students; 
j. Action likely to cause injury, impair safety or raise false alarm on or off University of 
Strathclyde premises, such as acts involving damage to or discharge, without just cause, 
of a Fire Extinguisher or other Fire Safety Equipment; 
k. Verbally or non-verbally abusing, harassing, victimising or discriminating against staff, 
students, the public and authorised visitors to the University. Where such activity is 
taken on the grounds of protected characteristics (age, disability, race, ethnic or national 
origin, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, pregnancy, 
maternity, marriage or civil partnership or socio-economic background), this will be 
considered an aggravating factor; 
l. Repeatedly contacting another person (by phone, email, text or on social networking 
sites) against the wishes of the other person; 
m. Any sexual misconduct/sexual impropriety, including, but not limited to, non-consensual 
sexual activity, sexual violence, assault, harassment, unwanted remarks of a sexual 
nature and stalking; 
n. Violent, indecent, disorderly, threatening or offensive behaviour or language whilst on or 
off University premises whether directed towards a member of staff, another student, 
professional staff such as police, ambulance, fire crew etc, or a member of the public; 
o. Conduct that unjustifiably infringes freedom of thought or expression, whilst on 
University premises or engaged in University work, study or activity; 
p. Improper coercion or manipulation of students to their physical  or mental detriment, for 
example when making others take part in demeaning activities such as associated with 
initiation; 
q. Making false, frivolous, malicious or vexatious complaints; 
r. Failure to comply with a previously imposed penalty under this Procedure, including non- 
payment of a disciplinary fine; 
s. Any activity which expresses extremist views or supports radicalisation is not permitted, 
including accessing or sharing extremist materials, or using extremist language; 
t. Failure to observe guidance on matters of public safety or health relating to the 
University or wider community, whether issued by the University or a statutory body; 
u. Any other act or behaviour which may be reasonably interpreted by the University as 
Non-academic Misconduct, notwithstanding the lack of equivalent examples above. 
 
PROCEDURAL STEPS 
27. The main body of this Procedure sets out the steps to be followed in alleged cases of Non- 
academic Misconduct. 
 
28. The University of Strathclyde operates a tiered process for managing alleged cases of Non- 
academic Misconduct as follows: 
 
a. Early Intervention/Caution; 
b. Misconduct Officer consideration (Stage 1); 
c. Escalation to a Senate Discipline Committee (Stage 2).

--- PAGE 8 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
7 
 
 
 
29. Following the implementation of Stage 1 and Stage 2 of the Procedure, the Reported Student 
has a right to appeal. 
 
EARLY INTERVENTION/CAUTION 
30. Considering and using disciplinary action at an early stage can prevent more serious offences 
or issues arising. The University of Strathclyde views this Procedure as part of a supportive and 
educational approach, as Non-academic Misconduct may be the first indicator of underlying 
challenges. The Early Intervention/Caution stage of this Procedure can provide Reported 
Students with an opportunity for reflection and learning. 
 
31. For allegations where there are significant concerns for the health and safety of students and 
staff, cases will automatically progress to Stage 1. Due to the serious nature of cases involving 
the offering or accepting of any kind of bribe or threatening or coercing others in relation to 
assessments at and/or in association with the University, which often represent situations where 
concerns regarding student and staff health and wellbeing are evident, these cases will 
automatically be escalated to Stage 1 of this Procedure. The examples provided here are not 
exhaustive and there may be other cases which will automatically progress to Stage 1 at the 
discretion of the Department. 
 
32. Through Early Intervention/Caution, the Department will be able to apply one or more of the 
following recommendations: 
 
a. No further action required; 
b. Informal resolution between all parties involved to take place to resolve any conflicts that 
have arisen. This will only occur if all individuals involved consent to this approach. This 
may result in the creation of a Behavioural Contract. There will be cases where this is 
clearly not an appropriate course of action; 
c. Reported Student to submit a sanctioned and approved apology letter; 
d. Reported Student referred to Support and Wellbeing Services; 
e. Reported Student required to attend specific workshops or training events; 
f. For incidents taking place within accommodation services, Reported Student required to 
pay a fixed penalty fine for misuse of/damage to property and/or breaches of health and 
safety guidance and/or breaches of public health guidance. Posters are displayed in 
Halls of Residence setting out the fixed-penalty fines and the behaviours that can incur 
these fines; 
g. Any other sanction not affecting registration or progress of studies deemed appropriate 
to impose upon the Reported Student by the Department. Any financial costs imposed 
under this outcome, i.e. replacement of damaged equipment, should not exceed £500. 
In such cases where a payment for damages occurred exceeds £500, the case should 
be referred to Stage 1 of this Procedure. 
 
33. In cases where the Department has decided that action is required (see paragraph 32 b to g) 
above), they will produce an Early Intervention/Caution Form detailing any sanctions deemed 
appropriate. This will be shared with the Reported Student and with the Senate Office (see 
Table of Roles in Annex 1). 
 
34. Failure to complete any actions by the deadlines assigned, will normally result in a Misconduct 
Officer being appointed to consider the case at Stage 1 (see paragraph 36 onwards).

--- PAGE 9 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
8 
 
 
 
35. If a Reported Student does not accept the outcome of Early Intervention/Caution, the matter will 
automatically be escalated to Stage 1 of this Discipline Procedure for consideration. 
 
STAGE 1: MISCONDUCT OFFICER CONSIDERATION 
36. For cases where the following apply, Stage 1 of this Procedure will be implemented: 
 
a. Allegations fall within the categories outlined in paragraph 31 above; or 
b. The Reported Student does not accept the Early Intervention/Caution recommendations 
that are put in place; or 
c. The Department believes that a full Stage 1 investigation is appropriate, for example, 
due to repeated Non-academic Misconduct allegations and/or because measures put in 
place at a previous Early Intervention/Caution have not been adhered to. 
 
37. Any Stage 1 consideration of an alleged act of Non-academic Misconduct shall normally include 
an interview with the Reported Student by a Misconduct Officer for the purposes of setting out 
the allegations/issues to be investigated, understanding the Reported Student’s position and to 
present any evidence obtained. However, in cases where allegations against five or more 
Reported Students relate to the same incident, the Department may choose to request a written 
statement from the Reported Students, (responding to the case and the evidence presented), in 
lieu of an interview. This does not preclude an interview from being held later if this is felt 
necessary by the Department, or at the request of the Reported Student, for example to clarify 
elements of the written statement or discuss emerging evidence. 
 
38. The Misconduct Officer should contact the Reported Student with a proposed date and time for 
the interview at least five working days in advance of the interview date. The student will be 
notified of/provided with: 
 
a. The details of the alleged offence; 
b. The evidence under consideration, including any witness statements; 
c. Information relating to penalties which may be imposed if the alleged offence is admitted 
or found to be proven; 
d. Their right to be accompanied (or represented in their absence) by a Supporter and/or 
Representative; 
e. Their right to submit evidence to the Misconduct Officer in advance of the interview; 
f. Their right to submit a written statement in response to the alleged offence(s) to the 
Misconduct Officer in advance of the interview; 
g. Their right to identify witnesses in support of their case; 
h. Confirmation of the name and job role of any other members of staff who will attend the 
interview; 
i. Confirmation of whether any Professional Advisers of the University will attend the 
interview; 
j. A link to this Non-academic Misconduct Procedure. 
 
39. The Reported Student shall be asked to confirm attendance at least three working days in 
advance of the date of the interview. The Reported Student may request an alternative date, if 
this falls within a timescale that does not extend past fifteen working days from the date that the 
Misconduct Officer contacted the Reported Student to arrange the interview.

--- PAGE 10 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
9 
 
 
 
40. Any Reported Student asked to attend a Stage 1 interview is encouraged to seek support and 
guidance from the Strath Union Student Advice Hub. 
 
41. Failure by the Reported Student to respond to a request for interview or to attend an interview 
on an agreed date will not stop the case from being progressed by the Misconduct Officer. In 
exceptional circumstances, it may be possible for a Reported Student to submit a written 
statement to the Misconduct Officer with their prior agreement. This will only be possible in 
cases where there is an acceptable and evidenced reason why the Reported Student is unable 
to attend an interview in person or virtually. 
 
42. Reported Students may submit evidence to the Misconduct Officer, either in advance of the 
interview or at the interview. Guidance for students on producing evidence for consideration at 
any stage of this Procedure is available online and should be utilised by Reported Students 
when they are preparing a submission of evidence 
 
43. The Reported Student may be accompanied to the interview by a Supporter and/or a 
Representative, (see Table of Roles in Annex 1
), of the Reported Student’s choice. As stated in 
the Table of Roles, the Representative may address the Misconduct Officer on the Reported 
Student’s behalf if requested to do so by the Reported Student. The Supporter has no formal 
role in the meeting, although they will be invited to state their name and relationship to the 
Reported Student. Further information on these roles is set out below: 
 
a. Supporters and Representatives are expected to conduct themselves in a polite and 
respectful manner throughout the proceedings; 
b. Supporters are not expected to answer questions on behalf of the Reported Student or 
make statements to the Misconduct Officer. They may ask for clarification on any points 
discussed during the interview, when invited to do so by the Misconduct Officer; 
c. Supporters and Representatives are not permitted to ask questions of witnesses, unless 
directed to do so by the Misconduct Officer in the case of Representatives, with the 
agreement of the witness beforehand; 
d. Supporters and Representatives are not expected to interrupt the proceedings. If there 
are interruptions, the proceedings may be adjourned and when reconvened the 
Reported Student may be asked to bring an alternate Supporter and/or Representative. 
 
44. Following the interview, the Misconduct Officer will consider the evidence collected during the 
investigation. If the Reported Student has presented new evidence at the interview, it may be 
necessary for the Misconduct Officer to make further enquiries and meet with witnesses again 
or with any new witnesses, as necessary. It may also be necessary to hold a further interview 
with the Reported Student, for which the process set out in paragraphs 36 to 43 will apply. 
 
45. In cases where further time is required to gather additional evidence or clarify details, or where 
a follow-up interview is required, the Misconduct Officer will write to the Reported Student to 
confirm a timescale by which they will be informed of the outcome. This will not normally total 
more than 30 working days since the date of the interview with the Reported Student, however 
in complex cases more time may be required. The Misconduct Officer is responsible for keeping 
the Reported Student informed of any delays, the reasons for this and the revised timescales.

--- PAGE 11 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
10 
 
 
 
46. In reaching their conclusion, the Misconduct Officer may decide to dismiss the allegation on the 
grounds that it has not been possible to establish, on the balance of probabilities, that the Non- 
academic Misconduct occurred. Such a finding will be reached in the following circumstances: 
 
a. A lack of demonstrable evidence that proves, on the balance of probabilities, that the 
alleged Non-academic Misconduct took place as reported; 
b. Parties involved have offered conflicting versions of events and are found by the 
Misconduct Officer to be reliable witnesses, making it impossible to arrive at a 
conclusion. 
 
47. If the Misconduct Officer upholds the allegation of Non-academic Misconduct on the grounds 
that either the evidence obtained demonstrates that it is likely that Non-academic Misconduct 
has occurred, and/or the Reported Student admits responsibility for the Non-academic 
Misconduct they are accused of, they will impose one or more of the following penalties: 
 
a. Any of the recommendations set out in paragraph 32 above, for Early 
Intervention/Caution; 
b. A formal written warning, setting out terms and conditions for the Reported Student’s 
continued registration at the University and timelines within which any specific actions 
must be taken; 
c. Reported Student required to make good, in whole or in part, any damage caused; 
d. Reported Student required to pay a fine, not exceeding an amount determined by 
Senate, (last set in Session 2021/22 at £200). Any fines collected by this Procedure will 
be allocated to central funds to support students encountering hardship; 
e. Reported Student to repay monies obtained fraudulently from the University; 
f. Reported Student is temporarily excluded from a particular University service and/or 
building, such the Library Services, IT Services, Accommodation Services etc; 
g. In exceptional circumstances, where the health and safety of other students and staff is 
a concern, Reported Student may be permanently excluded from a service not directly 
related to academic studies, for example Accommodation Services or Disability & 
Wellbeing Services. 
 
48. A Misconduct Officer may also refer a case for consideration under Stage 2 of the Procedure. 
Referral to Stage 2 will normally occur in instances where there is a repeated offence, with 
repeated offence(s) having been formally investigated under Stage 1. Referral to Stage 2 will 
also be required where the penalty that the Misconduct Officer determines should be imposed 
has an impact on a Reported Student’s opportunity to progress as planned in their studies. 
Misconduct Officers are empowered by Senate to use their judgement to determine whether a 
case should be referred to Stage 2. 
 
49. The Misconduct Officer will write to the Reported Student confirming the outcome of the Stage 1 
Investigation and any penalties being applied. The Misconduct Officer will inform the Reporting 
Person of the outcome only and will not normally disclose penalties unless these are directly 
linked to the Reporting Person. 
 
50. If a student wishes to appeal a Stage 1 outcome, information on the process and criteria for 
appeal is set out in paragraph 69 onwards. 
 
51. It should be noted that the relevant undergraduate or postgraduate Board of Examiners may 
not use its discretion to adjust marks that have been reduced for disciplinary reasons and may

--- PAGE 12 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
11 
 
 
not apply compensation to such marks. 
 
STAGE 2: SENATE DISCIPLINE COMMITTEE 
52. This section of the Procedure applies to cases referred to the Stage 2 Senate Discipline 
Committee, following management at Stage 1. 
 
53. All cases referred by a Misconduct Officer to Stage 2 (via the Senate Office), will be considered 
by the University Secretary (or nominee). The Senate Office SharePoint site provides guidance 
for Misconduct Officers and templates for submitting a case to Stage 2, including a checklist, 
timeline template and Stage 1 report template. 
 
54. In cases where the University Secretary (or nominee) decides that a referral has been made 
without sufficient cause, the case will be returned by the Senate Office to the Misconduct 
Officer for action. In such cases, the Misconduct Officer will be responsible for following the 
steps set out in paragraphs 46 to 51 above, including notifying the Reported Student of the 
outcome of the allegation against them. 
 
55. In cases where the University Secretary, (or nominee), decides that the case should be heard 
by a Senate Discipline Committee for consideration, the Senate Office will organise a hearing 
of a Senate Discipline Committee. In exceptional cases, the University Secretary (or nominee) 
may commission an investigation to supplement the findings of the Misconduct Officer’s Stage 
1 Report, in advance of a Senate Discipline Committee hearing. 
 
56. In cases referred to a Senate Discipline Committee, the University Secretary (or nominee) will 
write to the Reported Student to confirm that a Senate Discipline Committee hearing will take 
place, with at least ten working days’ notice, and to confirm arrangements for the hearing. The 
student will be notified of/provided with: 
 
a. The details of the alleged offence; 
b. The evidence under consideration, including any witness statements (the Reported 
Student will receive the same evidence pack as a Senate Discipline Committee, barring 
any briefing notes and checklists produced specifically for Senate Discipline Committee 
members); 
c. Information relating to penalties which may be imposed if the alleged offence is admitted 
or found to be proven; 
d. Their right to be accompanied (or represented in their absence) by a Supporter and/or 
Representative; 
e. Their right to submit evidence to a Senate Discipline Committee in advance; 
f. Their right to call witnesses in support of their case; 
g. The date, time and place of the hearing; 
h. Confirmation of whether any Professional Advisers of the University will attend the 
hearing; 
i. Confirmation of the names of any witnesses that a Senate Discipline Committee will call 
to the hearing; 
j. A link to this Non-academic Misconduct Procedure. 
 
57. If a Reported Student cannot attend the hearing, (the Senate Office will request a compelling 
and evidenced explanation as to why they cannot attend), they will be invited to an alternative 
hearing. In exceptional cases, for example where a Reported Student can evidence that they 
are unable attend the hearing, in person or virtually, they may submit a written statement for

--- PAGE 13 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
12 
 
 
consideration by a Senate Discipline Committee. 
 
58. A Senate Discipline Committee comprises Staff and Student members of Senate known as 
Senators (see Table of Roles in Annex 1). The Convener will ask members of a Senate 
Discipline Committee to declare any perceived, potential or actual conflicts of interest ahead of 
each meeting and the membership of the Committee may be amended as appropriate. The 
Convener of the Committee will circulate the following to Committee members in advance of the 
hearing: 
 
a. The report of the Misconduct Officer, including any recommendations to a Senate 
Discipline Committee; 
b. The evidence gathered by the Misconduct Officer/s to support their findings, e.g. witness 
statements, emails, social media posts, character references etc; 
c. Any additional evidence gathered as part of an additional investigation requested by the 
University Secretary (see paragraph 55); 
d. A record of any previous Early Intervention/Caution cases where action was taken; 
e. The report/s from any previous Stage 1 instances of Non-academic Misconduct or Non- 
academic Misconduct, where the case was upheld; 
f. Any statements or evidence submitted by the Reported Student prior to the hearing, 
including any mitigation they wish to submit, for example evidence of illness or 
challenging personal circumstances. 
 
59. Any evidence which the Reported Student wishes to be considered by a Senate Discipline 
Committee must be submitted to the Senate Office at least five working days before the 
hearing. Guidance is available online
 for students who are producing evidence for 
consideration at any stage of this Procedure and should be used by Reported Students when 
they are preparing a submission of evidence. 
 
60. If the Reported Student wishes to admit the offence, with any mitigating circumstances, this may 
be done in writing before the date of the hearing. The Reported Student shall still be entitled to 
appear before a Senate Discipline Committee and should confirm in writing, at least five working 
days ahead of the hearing, whether they will attend. 
 
61. Each Reported Student must inform the Senate Office, at least five working days before the 
hearing, of the names of any Supporter and Representative, and their relationship to them, (see 
paragraph 43 above for more information on these roles), who will accompany the Reported 
Student to the hearing. The Reported Student will be entitled to receive from the Senate Office 
a note of the names of any Professional Advisors and/or witnesses who will be appearing on 
behalf of the University. The Reported Student will have the right to suggest other witnesses 
that can be contacted for a written statement or to attend the hearing. If the Reported Student 
fails to provide the details of their Representative within the stated timelines, the Convener of 
the Senate Discipline Committee may decide not to allow the Representative to attend the 
hearing. 
 
62. If a Reported Student fails to attend a Senate Discipline Committee, the hearing will proceed in 
their absence. 
 
63. A Senate Discipline Committee may, if it is deemed necessary, adjourn a hearing for a period of 
time. This will only occur in: 
 
a. Exceptional cases where a Senate Discipline Committee cannot reach a decision and is

--- PAGE 14 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
13 
 
 
therefore required to refer the case back to the University Secretary; or 
b. Cases where a Student Discipline Committee refers a student to a Fitness to Practise 
panel or to student support services for wellbeing or health support; or 
c. The Convener is advised by the University Secretary that criminal proceedings have 
been brought to the University’s attention. 
 
64. If a Senate Discipline Committee does not find reasonable cause for the alleged Non-academic 
Misconduct, the case will be dismissed. The Senate Office will keep a record of the case for the 
duration of the student’s registration, for reporting purposes. 
 
65. In cases where a Senate Discipline Committee upholds the allegation of Non-academic 
Misconduct, it is empowered to impose one or more of the following sanctions or penalties: 
 
a. Any of the penalties set out in paragraphs 32 and 47 above, for Early Intervention or 
Stage 1, respectively; 
b. Reported Student required to pay a fine, (in addition to any requirement to make good, 
in whole or part, any damaged caused), not exceeding an amount determined by 
Senate, (last set in Session 2021/22 at £500). Any fines imposed by this Procedure will 
be allocated to central funds to support students encountering hardship; 
c. Reported Student required to repay monies obtained fraudulently from the University; 
d. Reported Student suspended from attendance at the University for a stipulated period; 
e. Reported Student is suspended from access to named University Services or facilities 
for a stipulated period; 
f. Reported Student is permanently excluded from access to named University Services or 
facilities; 
g. Reported Student’s degree classification will be capped; 
h. Reported Student is awarded an exit award rather than the degree for which they 
registered; 
i. An award or credits for which the Reported Student could be eligible is withheld 
permanently or for a specified period of time; 
j. An award previously granted by the University of Strathclyde is revoked, either 
permanently or for a specified period of time, under Statute 3.6.3; 
k. Reported Student is suspended from the University for a specified period of time; 
l. Reported Student is permanently excluded from the University of Strathclyde without 
credits or awards gained; 
m. Reported Student is permanently excluded from the University of Strathclyde with credits 
or awards gained; 
n. Such other penalties as may be proportionate to the offence committed by the Reported 
Student and considered appropriate by a Senate Discipline Committee.
1 
 
66. Any of the above penalties may be suspended for a period of time for the following reasons: 
 
a. The Reported Student is appealing the decision of a Senate Discipline Committee; 
b. A Senate Discipline Committee has specified conditions, in agreement with the 
University Secretary (or nominee), for example, that the University awaits a student’s 
 
 
1 Under Constitutional Regulation 1.5.5. Senate delegates its powers to a Senate Discipline Committee, which is empowered to use its 
judgement to consider individual discipline cases in accordance with the provision of Regulations for Student Discipline and determine 
proportionate penalties. These may include a hybrid of the penalties listed in paragraph 84, including variations on these penalties, or 
other penalties not listed above or anywhere else within this Procedure. Senate empowers a Senate Discipline Committee to exercise its 
judgement in such cases.

--- PAGE 15 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
14 
 
 
 
participation in a Fitness to Practise panel, the outcomes of which might affect the 
penalty applied. 
 
67. The University Secretary (or nominee) will write to the Reported Student to confirm the outcome 
of the case and the implementation of any penalties. 
 
68. The Senate Office will inform the Reporting Person, who made the allegation, of the outcome 
only and will not normally disclose penalties unless these are directly linked to the Reporting 
Person. 
 
RIGHT TO APPEAL 
69. Following a Reported Student’s receipt of confirmation that a Non-academic Misconduct case 
has been upheld and details of any penalty being applied, either from the Misconduct Officer 
(for Stage 1) or a Senate Discipline Committee (for Stage 2), the Reported Student may decide 
to appeal the decision. 
 
70. A decision made by a Misconduct Officer to refer a case to the University Secretary for 
consideration under Stage 2 of the Procedure does not constitute a penalty, and at this stage a 
Reported Student is unable to appeal. If the University Secretary considers that a case should 
not progress to a Senate Discipline Committee hearing the case will be returned to the relevant 
Department for disposal under Stage 1 of the Procedure and the application of an appropriate 
penalty. At this stage the Misconduct Officer will write to the Reported Student to inform them of 
the outcome of the Stage 1 disciplinary process and their right to appeal. 
 
71. As stated in paragraph 35, if a Reported Student does not accept recommendations put in place 
as part of Early Intervention/Caution, their case will automatically progress to Stage 1. 
 
72. A Reported Student wishing to submit an appeal against the outcome of a Stage 1 case must do 
so within 10 working days of receipt of written confirmation of the outcome of the case from the 
Misconduct Officer. 
 
73. A Reported Student wishing to submit an appeal against an outcome of a Stage 2 case must 
submit this within 10 working days of receipt of written confirmation from the University 
Secretary of the outcome of the case from a Senate Discipline Committee. 
 
74. A Reported Student has the right to submit an appeal on one or more of the following criteria 
against a decision made, or the penalty imposed, in both Stage 1 and Stage 2 cases: 
 
a. New material evidence is available, which was not available on reasonable enquiry or 
application at the time of consideration at Stage 1 or Stage 2; 
b. A procedural irregularity occurred during the process; 
c. Bias or prejudice against the Reported Student was demonstrated by the Misconduct 
Officer and/or a Senate Discipline Committee; 
d. The penalty imposed is excessive or represents inappropriate punishment. 
 
75. When submitting an appeal, the Reported Student will need to provide new evidence to 
demonstrate sufficient grounds for appeal against the criteria listed in paragraph 74. This may 
take the form of email correspondence, the notes of a Senate Discipline Committee, outcome 
letters or other documentary evidence. It is unlikely that an appeal will be heard if the relevant

--- PAGE 16 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
15 
 
 
and new evidence and/or a compelling commentary is not provided to demonstrate there are 
sufficient grounds for appeal. 
 
Appeals  Against  Stage 1 Outcomes 
76. Appeals against Stage 1 outcomes will be submitted to the Executive Dean of the Faculty (or 
nominee). The Reported Student must complete the Discipline Procedure Appeals Form and 
clearly set out the above criteria for appeal, confirming which of the above categories in 
paragraph 74 form the basis of the appeal. Any supporting evidence must be submitted to the 
Executive Dean of Faculty, along with the Discipline Procedure Appeals Form. 
 
77. The Executive Dean (or nominee) will consider whether there are sufficient grounds to hear the 
appeal. If the appeal is determined to be admissible, the Executive Dean (or nominee) will 
recommend to the University Secretary that the case progresses to a Senate Discipline 
Committee under Stage 2 of this Procedure. 
 
78. If the University Secretary decides that the case should be considered by a Senate Discipline 
Committee, Stage 2 will be instigated (see paragraphs 52 to 68 above). In such cases, the 
University Secretary will write to the student after the Executive Dean has confirmed the 
outcome of the appeal. 
 
79. If the Executive Dean (or nominee) determines that there are insufficient grounds for appeal 
against a Stage 1 outcome, the case will be dismissed and there is no further right of appeal. In 
such cases, the Executive Dean (or nominee) will confirm the outcome of the Stage 1 appeal to 
the Reported Student within 30 working days of receipt. 
 
Appeals  Against  Stage 2 Outcomes 
80. Appeals against Stage 2 Senate Discipline Committee outcomes will be submitted to the Senate 
Office, using the Discipline Procedure Appeals Form. The Reported Student must clearly set out 
the criteria for appeal (see paragraph 74 above), and will need to provide new evidence to 
demonstrate sufficient grounds for appeal against these criteria. It is unlikely that an appeal will 
be heard if the relevant and new evidence and/or a compelling commentary is not provided to 
demonstrate there are sufficient grounds for appeal. 
 
81. Any evidence submitted to support an appeal must be submitted to the Senate Office along with 
the Discipline Procedure Appeals Form. Guidance for students on producing evidence for 
consideration at any stage of this Procedure is available online and should be utilised by 
Reported Students when they are preparing an appeal submission. 
 
82. The Senate Office will confirm receipt of the appeal to the Reported Student, usually within five 
working days. 
 
83. The Vice-Principal (or nominee) will convene a Panel to discuss the appeal, comprising 
themselves, a Senate Discipline Appeals Board Convener and the Director of Education 
Enhancement (or nominee). This Panel will reach a decision as to whether there are sufficient 
grounds for the appeal to be heard by a Senate Discipline Appeals Board. A Professional 
Advisor of the University may also be in attendance to provide advice and guidance. 
 
84. If the Panel decide that there are insufficient grounds for appeal, the Vice Principal (or nominee) 
will write to the Reported Student, within 30 working days of receipt of the appeal, to inform 
them of this decision. This letter will reconfirm the original outcomes and any penalties assigned

--- PAGE 17 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
16 
 
 
at Stage 2. There is no further right of appeal. 
 
85. If the Panel determines there are sufficient grounds for appeal, the Vice-Principal will refer the 
case to a Senate Discipline Appeals Board. The Vice-Principal (or nominee) will write to the 
student, within 30 working days of receipt of the appeal, to inform the student that a Senate 
Discipline Appeals Board will hear their appeal. 
 
86. A Senate Discipline Appeals Board will not comprise Senators who were on the original Senate 
Discipline Committee. The Convener will ask Senators forming the Senate Discipline Board to 
declare any perceived or actual conflicts of interest ahead of each meeting and the membership 
of the Board may be amended as appropriate. 
 
87. If a Stage 2 Senate Discipline Committee has previously imposed a penalty of partial or full 
suspension or expulsion, the student will not normally be permitted to attend the University 
during the period when the appeal case is being investigated and heard. The Reported Student 
may apply to the Vice-Principal for permission to attend the University if it would be 
unreasonable to prevent attendance. Reasons for such an application for permission may 
include, but are not limited to: 
 
a. Undertaking a formal on campus assessment for their programme of study; 
b. A change in circumstances since the Stage 2 Senate Discipline Committee; 
c. A delay in the appeal hearing not linked to further investigation of a case; 
d. The timing of an appeal, for example if the timing of a Senate Discipline Appeals Board 
means that a Reported Student successfully appealing the original penalty would be 
prevented from returning to study immediately. 
 
88. Applications for a Reported Student to attend the University in the circumstances outlined in 
paragraph 83 above, must be submitted to the Senate Office in writing. On review of a 
recommendation from the Vice-Principal (or nominee), the Principal (or nominee) may refuse or 
grant permission to attend the University and may, if granting permission to attend, limit 
attendance to specific locations and/or times. 
 
89. A Senate Discipline Appeals Board hearing will follow the same format as that outlined for a 
Senate Discipline Committee hearing in paragraphs 56 to 68. 
 
90. A Senate Discipline Appeals Board may, if it is deemed necessary, adjourn a hearing for a 
period of time. This will only occur in: 
 
a. Exceptional cases where a Senate Discipline Appeals Board cannot reach a decision 
and is therefore required to refer the case back to the Vice Principal, who may decide to 
refer the case back to the University Secretary with a recommendation that further 
investigations are undertaken; or 
b. Cases where a Senate Discipline Appeals Board refers a student to a Fitness to Practise 
panel or to student support services for wellbeing or health support; or 
c. The Convener is advised by the University Secretary that criminal proceedings have 
been brought to the University’s attention. 
 
91. If the Reported Student’s appeal is upheld, the Reported Student will receive written 
confirmation from the Vice Principal (or nominee) that all penalties are either withdrawn, (if Non- 
academic Misconduct is determined not to have occurred), or reduced. Any reduced penalties 
will be in line with those outlined under paragraph 65 of this Procedure.

--- PAGE 18 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
17 
 
 
 
92. If a Senate Discipline Appeals Board dismisses the appeal, the Vice-Principal (or nominee) will 
confirm to the Reported Student, in writing, that the original outcome and penalties from Stage 2 
stand. 
 
93. The Reported Student will normally be formally informed of the outcome of the hearing within 
five working days of the hearing. 
 
94. Students can contact the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman for advice, should they wish to 
make a complaint to the Ombudsman regarding a Non-academic Misconduct case and 
outcome, in line with sections 3 and 4 of the Complaints Handling Procedure. 
 
95. Senate receives regular reports of cases heard by Senate Discipline Committees and Senate 
Discipline Appeals Boards. These are anonymised in nature and noted under the Reserved 
Agenda of Senate.

--- PAGE 19 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
18 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1 - ROLES 
Roles and Responsibilities relating to Student Discipline 
 
Principal Under Statue 5.2 the Principal is responsible for maintaining and 
promoting the efficiency and good order of the University. 
 
The Principal chairs the University Senate. 
 
Under Ordinance 1.3.1 the Principal may refuse to admit any person 
as a member or student of the University, and may suspend any 
student from any class or classes, and may exclude any member or 
student or other individual(s) from any part of the University or its 
precincts for reasons including but not limited to unreasonable, amoral 
or illegal conduct. 
Vice-Principal During the absence of the Principal the Vice-Principal undertakes the 
duties of the Principal. 
 
The Vice-Principal has a specific decision-making role under the 
Student Discipline Procedures. 
University Secretary The responsibilities of the University Secretary include the provision of 
support services for Senate, and, through the Senate Office, for 
overseeing University-level discipline cases, and, through the 
Directorate of Strategy & Policy, for overseeing University-level 
complaints handling. 
 
The University Secretary has a specific decision-making role under 
the Student Discipline Procedures. 
Associate Principal & 
Executive Deans 
Associate Principal & Executive Deans may be invited by the Vice- 
Principal to convene Senate Discipline Appeals Board. 
Deputy Associate 
Principals 
Deputy Associate Principals may be invited by the University 
Secretary to convene Senate Discipline Committees or by the Vice- 
Principal to convene Senate Discipline Appeals Boards. 
Misconduct Officer (An 
academic or 
professional services 
member of staff) 
Appointed by the Head of Department/School, or Director or Head of 
Service, to consider allegations of Non-academic Misconduct. 
 
Under the Student Discipline Procedures, the Misconduct Officer is 
empowered to impose penalties on behalf of Senate following a Stage 
1 investigation, or to recommend to the University Secretary that a 
case is heard by a Senate Discipline Committee. 
Professional Advisor A Professional Advisor, to include where appropriate internal or 
external legal counsel, who is invited to attend a Senate Discipline 
Committee or a Senate Discipline Appeals Board hearing to provide 
professional advice. 
Representative Person chosen by the Reported Student to offer advice or to represent 
them in interviews with Misconduct Officers, and/or at Senate 
Discipline Committee/Senate Discipline Appeals Board hearings. 
Subject to prior consent of the Convener, more than one 
Representative may accompany the student to a Senate Discipline

--- PAGE 20 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
19 
 
 
 
 Committee or Senate Discipline Appeals Board. See paragraph 42 for 
further details. 
Senate Discipline 
Appeals Board 
A Sub-Committee of Senate established to consider student appeals 
against decisions of the Senate Discipline Committee regarding 
disciplinary offences (constitutional regulation 1.5.6). Membership 
comprises both Staff Senators and Student Senators. The Senate 
Discipline Appeals Board is empowered to ratify or rescind penalties 
assigned at Stage 2 by the Senate Discipline Committee. 
Senate Discipline 
Appeals Board 
Convener 
An Associate Principal or Deputy Associate Principal invited by the 
Vice-Principal to convene a Senate Discipline Appeals Board. 
Senate Discipline 
Committee 
A Sub-Committee of Senate that convenes to hear and decide on the 
outcome of individual disciplinary cases in accordance with the 
provisions of the Regulations for Student Discipline (
constitutional 
regulations 1.5.4 & 1.5.5). S enate Discipline Committees may also 
make recommendations on policy to Senate. Membership comprises 
Staff Senators and Student Senators. 
Senate Discipline 
Committee Convener 
A Deputy Associate Principal invited by the University Secretary to 
convene a Senate Discipline Committee 
Senator Members of Senate who are appointed to hear Stage 2 cases at 
Senate Discipline Committees and to hear appeals at Senate 
Discipline Appeals Boards. Members collectively make decisions on 
the outcome of Stage 2 and on appeal cases on behalf of Senate. 
Senate Office Professional Services Office in the Directorate of Education 
Enhancement that provides expert advice and administrative support 
for the Student Discipline Procedures, and additionally supports the 
University Senate, the Principal and the Vice-Principal. 
Supporter Person chosen by the Reported Student to accompany them to 
interviews with Misconduct Officers; and/or to Senate Discipline 
Committee/Senate Discipline Appeals Board hearings. The Supporter 
has no formal role in the Procedure beyond support for the Reported 
Student accused of Non-academic Misconduct. See paragraph 
42 for 
further details.

--- PAGE 21 ---

Student Discipline Procedure: Non-Academic Misconduct 
20 
 
 
 
ANNEX 2 – DEFINITIONS 
Terms used within this Procedure 
 
Term Meaning 
Academic Misconduct Any action or attempted action that may result in creating 
an unfair academic advantage for a student, or an unfair 
academic advantage or disadvantage for any other 
student member/s of the academic community and as 
further defined in the University’s Student Discipline 
Procedure for Non-academic Misconduct. 
Department Academic department/school, faculty, directorate or 
service within a directorate. 
Host Institution The university or organisation at which a Reported 
Student is primarily registered, for example for example a 
home university for a student on exchange. 
Non-academic Misconduct Violation of the University’s Regulations though behaviour 
which is not defined as Academic Misconduct (see 
paragraph 25 above). 
Regulation(s) Charter, statutes, ordinances, constitutional regulations, 
academic regulations, policies, procedures, codes of 
practice, codes of conduct, guidance documents and any 
other University documents which include within them 
details of the regulation of Non-academic Misconduct 
behaviours of students of the University. 
Reporting Person A student, staff member, StrathUnion representative, 
recognised University visitor (such as an external 
examiner), external professional body representative or a 
member of the public. 
Reported Student Student against whom an allegation of Non-academic 
Misconduct has been made. 
StrathUnion The trading name of the University of Strathclyde’s 
Students’ Association.