--- PAGE 1 ---

STUDENT MODULE 
EVALUATION POLICY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 A policy confirming 
arrangements for the 
University-wide 
student evaluation of 
modules. 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate 2nd August 2021 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in 
Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

Table of Contents 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS ............................................................................................................................. 3 
INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................................................ 4 
PRINCIPLES .............................................................................................................................................. 4 
HOW STUDENT MODULE EVALUATION IS UNDERTAKEN IN THE UNIVERSITY .................................. 5 
REPORTING AND RESULTS ..................................................................................................................... 6 
DATA PROTECTION .................................................................................................................................. 7 
RESPONSIBILITIES ................................................................................................................................... 8 
Appendix A .................................................................................................................................................  9

--- PAGE 3 ---

GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
 
Aggregate reporting Reports which combine the responses for a specified 
group or groups of respondents into a whole entity e.g. a 
Department/School report shows a summary of the 
results from all student responses from modules 
evaluated in that Department/School. 
Demographics Characteristics used to describe a population group or 
sub-group of individuals e.g. gender, age, ethnicity, 
domicile etc. 
Department/School Report The report produced showing the aggregated student 
feedback for all modules in a Department/School (see 
Appendix A). 
Module The individual components of a programme, normally 
worth 10 or 20 credits. 
Module Evaluation The process of obtaining feedback from students on all 
aspects of teaching, learning, and assessment within a 
module. 
Module Leader The person responsible for gathering Student Module 
Evaluation feedback (see also Assessment and 
Feedback Policy). May also be known as: Module 
Coordinator, Year Coordinator, Module Registrar, Class 
Coordinator, Class Organiser. This individual must hold 
the Class Organiser role in Pegasus to view and access 
module reports. 
Module report The report produced showing the aggregated student 
feedback for an individual module. See Appendix A. 
Myplace Dashboard This is displayed as the home page when a user is 
logged on to Myplace, found by clicking on Home in the 
main menu or Dashboard in the Navigation bar. 
Programme The full degree programme leading to an award. 
Questionnaire The set of questions students are asked to complete to 
provide feedback on a module. This normally refers to 
the standardised set of core and optional questions 
provided by the central system. 
Redaction The removal of offensive or inappropriate comments from 
a module report. This will be carried out by the 
Education Enhancement Directorate, normally upon the 
request of the Head of Department/School or nominee. 
Response rate The responses received as a percentage of the 
invitations sent out by the system 
Student Report The report produced for students showing the 
aggregated student feedback for a module along with the 
reflections from teaching staff. See Appendix A. 
Survey Method of gathering feedback from a given sample of 
individuals; in terms of module evaluation this is the 
method of gathering quantitative feedback from students 
enrolled in a particular module, administered via online 
questionnaire. 
Working days The University’s standard working week is normally 
Monday to Friday, covering five working days.

--- PAGE 4 ---

INTRODUCTION 
 
1. This policy sets out the University’s approach to Student Module Evaluation at the University of 
Strathclyde (hereafter University), defined in the University’s Assessment and Feedback Policy 
as the process of obtaining feedback from students on all aspects of teaching, learning, and 
assessment within a module. 
 
2. This policy on Student Module Evaluation reflects many years of work, in consultation with staff 
and students across all four Faculties. Our focus for Student Module Evaluation is to obtain and 
act on feedback to help enhance the Strathclyde student experience. As agreed by the Education 
Strategy Committee, Student Module Evaluation will form an important element of in fulfilling our 
ambitious aims for education in our strategy and vision for 2025. 
 
3. Student Module Evaluation at the University is an enhancement-led activity, carried out to provide 
a means for staff to listen and respond to the Strathclyde student voice, supporting improvements 
to learning and teaching. 
 
4. This policy supports our institutional objective for consistency in the review of learning and 
teaching across all disciplinary areas. The student voice is at the heart of 
our contextualised, data-led approach to enhancement, it informs our decision-making, and 
provides greater understanding of student feedback and its impact on the student experience. 
 
5. Student Module Evaluation is carried out as part of wider module and programme reflective 
review processes across Departments/Schools. 
 
6. This Policy should be read in conjunction with the University’s Assessment and Feedback Policy,  
Student Guidance on the Use of Social Media and Virtual Learning Environments, the Dignity 
and Respect Policy, the Student Representation Policy, the Student Discipline Procedure and 
the University’s Data Protection Policy, which can be accessed from the University’s Data 
Protection pages on the website. 
 
7. The policy applies to all credit-bearing undergraduate and postgraduate modules offered by the 
University, including but not limited to projects, placements, dissertations and work-based 
learning. The policy can also be applied to other modules where it is deemed appropriate to use 
the institutional approach to help obtain student feedback. 
 
 
 
PRINCIPLES 
 
8. The purpose of Student Module Evaluation is to enhance learning and teaching and the 
experience of our students through a clear and consistent institutional approach, with agreed 
procedures for gathering, analysing, acting upon and responding directly to student feedback. To 
this end, Student Module Evaluation is expected across all credit-bearing modules. 
 
9. Student Module Evaluation should normally be carried out online using the central facility 
delivered via Myplace. The central facility ensures a consistent and systematic approach for staff 
and students, enables aggregate reporting and supports the University Strategic Plan.

--- PAGE 5 ---

10. The University strongly encourages students to respond to Student Module Evaluation 
questionnaires, however they are not mandatory. Staff should encourage students to participate 
in module evaluation surveys and to share their honest feedback, however students should not 
feel pressured to complete an evaluation. Care must be taken to avoid leading students to 
respond in a particular way. Survey results, in the form of a Student Report, will be available to 
all students enrolled on that module. 
 
11. Staff must provide a response to acknowledge student feedback, normally using the central 
online facility. Responding to student feedback will contribute positively to the overall student 
experience and to the provision of excellent teaching at the University. It is good practice to 
highlight to students where their feedback has resulted in changes to learning and teaching 
delivery and, where relevant, to explain why suggested changes are not implemented. Student 
Module Evaluation is part of the wider module evaluation process carried out over a longer period, 
therefore further actions to fully close the feedback loop with students should also be considered. 
 
12. Students are encouraged to be honest, professional and timely in their feedback while adhering 
to the University’s Dignity and Respect Policy, the Student Representation Policy and University 
Guidance on the Use of Social Media and Virtual Learning Environments. Any student who is in 
breach of these policies may be subject to action under the University’s Student Discipline 
Procedure. 
 
13. All student feedback is confidential and responses are anonymised for reporting purposes. 
Student and staff data is gathered and used in line with the University’s Data Protection Policy 
(see para 29) and the University’s Student Module Evaluation Privacy Notice is available on 
Myplace, through module evaluation surveys and via email notifications. 
 
 
HOW STUDENT MODULE EVALUATION IS UNDERTAKEN IN THE UNIVERSITY 
 
14. Module level feedback from students is gathered via Myplace as part of online and face-to-face 
learning and teaching delivery. Staff members should encourage students to complete the 
evaluation during class time where possible e.g. lectures, seminars, labs, tutorials etc, to ensure 
engagement and high response rates as part of a strong student-staff partnership. 
 
15. Module evaluations can take place at mid-semester, at end-of-semester, or at both mid- and end- 
of-semester. A summer semester evaluation option is also available for modules that do not 
follow the two-semester calendar. 
 
16. The Education Enhancement Directorate maintains and periodically reviews a set of core and 
optional module evaluation questions, which allow question sets for individual modules to be 
tailored with a limited number of additional optional questions. 
 
17. A questionnaire is produced for each student on every credit-bearing module being surveyed in 
a Student Module Evaluation period. The questionnaires provide students with an opportunity to 
feed back and comment on various aspects of their modules, e.g. content, structure, 
presentation, workload, and provision of resources and give staff evaluation information with 
which to enhance the module. Students can access module evaluation surveys from any device 
via personalised email notifications and from Myplace.

--- PAGE 6 ---

18. Student module evaluation data is used for reflection by staff, who prepare a response to students 
as part of closing the feedback loop. Once student responses have been gathered, a report is 
produced for the Module Leader. This report determines the format and timeline for the student 
report (see paragraph 24). 
 
19. If the Module Leader has not provided a response to acknowledge student feedback within the 
required deadline (normally 6 working days after the survey has closed for mid-semester 
evaluations and 10 working days after the survey has closed for end-of-semester evaluations), it 
is escalated to the Head of Department/School or nominee. If no Departmental/School response 
is then issued within a reasonable timescale, a generic Faculty response to acknowledge the 
feedback received will be included in the student report. The Vice Deans Academic for each 
Faculty will receive a report each semester highlighting the modules where no response to 
student feedback was provided. 
 
20. The Education Enhancement Directorate is responsible for the coordination of Student Module 
Evaluation surveys. Please contact modules@surveys.strath.ac.uk for further information. 
 
 
REPORTING AND RESULTS 
 
21. Student Module Evaluation results are produced at module, Department/School, Faculty and 
Institution level. Report templates are designed and prepared by the Education Enhancement 
Directorate, in consultation with Faculties, Departments and Schools. Reports are automatically 
generated by the module evaluation system within a set period after evaluations have closed, as 
outlined in Appendix A. Requests for new reports or amendments to a report’s design will be 
managed               as outlined in the accompanying procedures document. 
 
22. When interpreting results, it should be noted that student module evaluation data is opinion- 
based, therefore may contain biases towards staff with certain protected characteristics. To 
account for this, it is important that data is contextualised and interpreted with care (see also Para 
24). 
 
23. Department/School reports with module level detail will be made available to Heads of 
Department/School and nominees; data contained in this report should be managed sensitively, 
with a focus on enhancement activity, and onward distribution only as required. 
 
24. In addition to Module, Department/School and Faculty reporting, aggregate reports will be 
created as part of wider thematic insight on particular topics of interest (including, but not limited 
to: Estates, Demographic reporting, International students etc.). These thematic aggregate 
reports will be shared with Quality Assurance Committee and Learning Enhancement Committee 
annually and any other relevant committees and working groups where appropriate. Module level 
results will be anonymised in aggregate reports beyond Department/School level to account for 
any bias in responses and avoid module-level data being de-contextualised. 
 
25. In aggregate reports, if a breakdown of results would include a sub-group of fewer than 5 
responses, the data from that sub-group will not be shown. 
 
26. All students registered on the module will receive a report summarising the student feedback 
along with the Module Leader’s response. In order to preserve confidentiality for staff and 
students, the student report will not contain free-text responses.

--- PAGE 7 ---

27. Permissions access is managed within the Student Module Evaluation system. The types of 
reports and to whom they are accessible is outlined in Appendix A. The raw data used to produce 
the reports outlined in Appendix A  can be exported to allow staff to conduct their own further 
analyses. 
 
28. Partial completions, i.e. surveys that students have started but not submitted by the closing date, 
will be included within the final module report. 
 
29. Free text responses are not redacted before reports are issued, therefore comments pertaining 
to named individual staff members may be included. Any comments not adhering to the 
University’s Dignity and Respect Policy can be manually redacted by contacting the Education 
Enhancement Directorate and may be followed up as indicated in paragraph 32. 
 
 
DATA PROTECTION 
 
30. All data gathered via student module evaluation is processed in accordance with the 
University’s Data Protection Policy, the Student Module Evaluation Privacy Notice and the 
University’s Privacy Notice – Staff and Other Categories. The University’s Student Module 
Evaluation Privacy Notice  is available on Myplace and links to the Privacy Notice are provided in 
module evaluation surveys and email notifications. 
 
31. As operators of the University’s module evaluation system, the Education Enhancement 
Directorate have access to all data and reporting information, including individual survey 
responses. Access to personal data, including identifiable survey responses, is restricted to 
individuals who have administrator-level access to the student module evaluation survey 
system. Student responses to evaluation surveys will be kept confidential by the Education 
Enhancement Directorate as detailed in the Student Module Evaluation Privacy Notice. 
 
32. The core questionnaire encourages constructive and professional feedback from students, 
referencing the University’s Dignity and Respect Policy. Responses will remain confidential, 
except where prior permission is obtained from the student. Where free text comments require 
further investigation, for example in accordance with the University’s Dignity and Respect Policy, 
the Student Discipline Procedure or where safeguarding concerns are raised, this will be done at 
the request of, and in conjunction with, the Head of Department/School or nominee. 
 
33. All response data from the survey will be retained electronically for up to five years, from the end 
of the academic year in which the feedback was given, to provide trend information. At the end 
of the retention period, data will be anonymised and retained until no longer required. Staff and 
student contact information will be managed as per the University Records Retention Schedule.

--- PAGE 8 ---

RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
All Staff • Responsible for encouraging students to complete the survey and to 
give honest feedback. 
• Where possible, academic staff should give students the opportunity 
to complete their questionnaires during live contact time, whether  
face-to-face or online. 
• Responsible for ensuring their personal information and teaching 
records (e.g. Pegasus Roles and Responsibilities) are up-to-date. 
Module Leader • Responsible for setting up mid- and/or end-of-semester evaluations 
on the Myplace class site, decision making and ensuring appropriate 
permissions on Myplace for those who require access. 
• Responsible for ensuring module evaluation takes place as an active 
part of learning and teaching, clearly and objectively with a focus on 
enhancement. 
• Responsible for reviewing and reflecting on module evaluation as  
part of the wider module review process 
• Producing comments to acknowledge student feedback by the 
required deadline, adhering to the University’s Dignity and Respect 
Policy. 
Head of Department/ 
School 
• Responsible for reviewing and reflecting on module evaluation and 
all decision-making at a Department/School level. 
• Responsible for determining the distribution of Department/School 
reports. 
• Responsible for ensuring that staff responses to student feedback 
adhere to the University’s Dignity and Respect Policy. 
• Responsible for ensuring that participation in module evaluation 
does not affect students’ standing in the University. 
• Responsible for ensuring that staff promote and encourage 
responses to Student Module Evaluations. 
Deans / Vice Deans 
Academic 
• Responsible for providing summary reports on satisfaction and 
response rates at Faculty Academic Committee and other 
committees and working groups as required. 
• Responsible for championing the use of the central online facility for 
Student Module Evaluation across the Faculty. 
Education 
Enhancement 
Directorate 
• Business owners and data custodians. 
• Responsible for the administration and operation of the central 
Student Module Evaluation system and module evaluation settings  
in Myplace. 
• Responsible for communicating key requirements and deadlines. 
• Responsible for developing and sharing information and guidance  
materials related to the Student Module Evaluation process and  
system. 
• Responsible for preparing an Annual report on Student Module 
Evaluation for QAC and Surveys and Metrics Working Group. 
Quality Assurance 
Committee 
• Responsible for reviewing and reflecting on the Module Evaluation 
Report 
• Responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Module 
Evaluation Policy 
Students • Participating students are responsible for providing constructive and 
professional feedback in line with the University’s Dignity and 
Respect Policy.

--- PAGE 9 ---

Appendix A 
 
Reports Produced and Access within System 
Direct access to the module evaluation system will be provided to the users specified in the table below. 
TYPE OF 
REPORT 
WHAT THE REPORT WILL COVER SYSTEM ACCESS PROVIDED 
TO* 
Response rates Real-time reporting of student response rates 
 
 
Closing the feedback loop (staff) response 
rates 
Lecturers and Class Organisers 
(Module Leaders) 
Head of Department/ School and 
nominees 
 
Head of Department/ School and 
nominees 
Module Reports 
(Staff) 
Aggregated module summary and frequency 
analysis of results by question (for rating 
questions) 
Mean scores by question and comparison to 
Department/School or Academic Unit mean  
Free text responses 
Summary of key elements for free text 
responses 
Reflective comments from module leaders (in 
final version issued after response provided 
to students) 
Module Leaders (Class 
Organisers) 
Head of Department/ School and 
nominees 
Student Reports Reflections from module leaders 
Aggregated summary of responses to ratings 
questions (not included in short format 
reports) 
*Note that students do not receive free text  
comments 
All students enrolled on a module 
being evaluated 
Department/ 
School Reports 
Aggregated Department/School summary 
and frequency analysis of results by question 
(for rating questions) 
Mean scores by question and comparison to  
Department/School or Faculty mean 
Free text responses 
Summary of key elements for free text 
responses 
Module level breakdown of results (included  
in separate summary) 
Head of Department/ School and 
nominees 
Faculty Reports Overall aggregate satisfaction score for 
Faculty and Departments/Schools 
Student response rates broken down for 
Faculty and Department/School level 
Staff response rates to closing the feedback 
loop broken down by Faculty and 
Department/School level 
Dean 
Vice Deans Academic 
Demographic 
Reporting 
Interpretation of feedback from students by 
gender, ethnicity, etc. Can be done at 
Education Enhancement 
Directorate – distribution to QAC,

--- PAGE 10 ---

institution level then broken down by Faculty, 
Department/School to identify trends. 
LEC and other relevant 
Committees and audiences as 
required 
Aggregate 
Reporting 
Module-anonymised reports produced e.g. for 
Estates Services, ISD and on topical themes, 
e.g. teaching facilities to compare before and 
after launch of new learning and teaching 
building. 
Free text comments provided by students can 
be mined for aggregate and thematic 
reporting, e.g. to count number of comments 
referencing a particular word/phrase and 
produce summary of content or to contribute  
to aggregate reporting, e.g. comments from a 
particular Department/School related to 
computing labs. 
Education Enhancement 
Directorate – distribution to QAC,  
LEC and other relevant 
Committees and audiences as 
required 
 
* Access is provided to the individual’s own module, Department/School or Faculty only.