--- PAGE 1 ---

SUPERVISORY 
AGREEMENT FOR 
POSTGRADUATE 
RESEARCHERS AND 
THEIR SUPERVISORS 
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
1.0 This document 
outlines the context, 
values, parties, and 
roles and 
responsibilities 
underpinning PGR 
supervisory 
relationships within 
the University. 
Associate 
Principal 
Social 
Inclusion 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered 
in Scotland, number SC015263 
Version 1.0 
November 2023

--- PAGE 2 ---

2  
Introduction 
1. This Supervisory Agreement for Postgraduate Researchers and their Supervisors has 
been developed to assure consistency in support and guidance for effective PGR 
supervisory relationships at the University of Strathclyde. 
2. The Agreement will apply to all PGR students, through all forms of postgraduate 
research study, including professional doctorates, and their supervisory teams at the 
University. The purpose of this agreement is to underline the values of the University, 
and expectations for behaviour for both PGR students and supervisory teams. It is 
recognised that Departments/Subjects/Research Teams may have existing 
agreements in place, which are wider in scope, i.e. outlining standards for 
engagement, review, use of specialist equipment etc. Where an existing agreement is 
in place, this agreement is designed to supplement not replace such agreements. 
3. All PGR students subscribe to the terms of this Agreement when completing their 
registration with the University. Members of staff at the University uphold the 
agreement in their capacity as supervisors, or wider support role for the PGR student 
experience, and members of the University community. 
4. Awareness of the 
PGR Supervisory Agreement shall be drawn to all new students 
during induction, and the Postgraduate Research (PGR) Monitoring Framework 
provides opportunity for reflection and review, throughout the PGR lifecycle. 
5. This Agreement recognises that research students make a vital contribution to the 
University’s research culture and international reputation and that the University of 
Strathclyde is committed to providing the highest quality of provision and support for 
its postgraduate research students to assist in all stages of their career. 
6. The Agreement recognises that doctoral study offers a tremendous opportunity for an 
intellectually exciting journey and great personal and professional development. It 
recognises that doctoral education may take many forms, with doctoral research 
study taking place within small teams through to large, complex, research units and 
partnerships. The 
Agreement recognises the complex domains of power within the 
supervisory experience, and seeks to underpin our institutional commitment to 
safeguarding across the entire University community of staff and students, through 
Safe360°. Through this Agreement, all parties recognise the importance of ensuring 
that their behaviour is in alignment with this, and that the supervisory relationship is 
conducted in such manner as to protect all parties against inappropriate behaviours 
or influence of action which may undermine the relationship, including (but not limited 
to): academic, personal, social or financial matters, whether in person or online. This 
is underpinned by the University’s Staff Personal Relationships Policy, as detailed 
within paragraph 
34.The University of Strathclyde is committed to ensuring that all 
Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) undertake research and related activities in an 
environment that is as supportive and safe as possible. 
7. In keeping with the University Values and the Strathclyde Community Commitment, 
the University believes that positive relationships between students and their 
supervisory team are key to a high quality and rewarding experience. This 
relationship must be founded on mutual respect and open communication. 
8. This Agreement sets out the University’s expectations relating to the supervisory 
relationship and the behaviour, roles, and standards expected of the student, and the 
supervisory team (first, second and tertiary supervisors), alongside the

--- PAGE 3 ---

3  
responsibilities of the department/school, faculty and University, in supporting a 
positive study environment. 
9. The University recognises that postgraduate research students operate at the nexus 
between the student and staff community, however, for the purposes of this 
agreement, an individual undertaking postgraduate research at the University is 
considered to be a ‘student’, this includes members of staff who are research 
associates undertaking postgraduate research study. 
10. This Agreement should be read in conjunction with other relevant University policies, 
including: 
a. The University’s Dignity and Respect Policy
; 
b. The Strathclyde Community Commitment; 
c. The General Academic Regulations (Postgraduate Research); 
d. The Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Students; 
e. The Research Data Policy, Research Code of Practice, and other relevant 
policies on ethics and research integrity; 
f. The relevant Faculty or Department/School Handbook for Research Students; 
g. The University’s Guidance for Postgraduate Research Students who Support 
Teaching; 
h. The University’s policy for PGR Leave Support; and 
i. The University’s Staff Personal Relationships Policy. 
 
Institutional Values 
11. The University of Strathclyde is a values-based organisation, committed to 
supporting a people-oriented work and study environment. In the context of the PGR 
supervisory agreement the institution: 
a. recognises and values staff and students for the work they undertake; 
b. identifies and engages positively with all staff, students, and external 
stakeholders; 
c. listens to, and responds to, the needs and concerns of the staff and student 
body; 
d. supports professional development and encourage the personal development 
of others; 
e. encourages an atmosphere of respect and tolerance in all circumstances; and 
f. expects courteous and respectful behaviour from its staff and students at all 
times. 
12. The University of Strathclyde believes that respect, trust, confidence, and fairness 
are essential elements of the student-supervisor relationship. The University also 
recognises that within such relationships, and the unique circumstances of 
postgraduate study, challenges may arise. 
 
13. The University believes that most interpersonal problems between students and their 
supervisory team can be avoided, or addressed, if all parties contribute responsibly, 
communicate honestly, and are respectful, courteous, and conscientious in their 
working relationships. 
 
14. The University expects that all parties will adhere to the standards set out in the 
Dignity and Respect policy, and the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research 
Study.

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
The Parties to the Agreement 
15. This Agreement includes those involved in research degree programmes, and
supervisory relationships, including:
a. Postgraduate  Research Students;
b. Supervisors  of Research Students;
c. Members of Interim and Annual Review Panels;
d. Members  of Progression Panels;
e. Examiners  of Research Degrees;
f. The Strathclyde Doctoral School;
g. Research Support and Administrative Staff; and
h. Any other staff involved in supporting or monitoring research programmes.
Roles and Responsibilities 
16. All parties agree to adhere to the values and standards of behaviour set out in this 
agreement.
17. All parties agree to familiarise themselves with the practical responsibilities of the 
student, supervisory team, and the school/department laid out in points 115-142 of 
the Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Students.
18. All parties recognise the University’s Dignity and Respect Policy, and its role in 
ensuring that every member of the University community is expected to understand, 
respect and behave in accordance with our Strathclyde Community Commitment. 
This Policy underpins the University’s approach to supporting effective PGR 
supervisory relationships.
19. The University recognises that from time to time minor disagreements or difference of 
opinion may arise within a supervisory relationship, and in such cases early 
intervention with the support of other members of the Department/School/Research 
team may be appropriate. However, anything which may come within the scope of 
the Dignity and Respect Policy, or other Policy and Guidance referred to in this 
agreement, should be addressed through the appropriate formal routes.
20. Relevant parties may seek support for escalation via the following routes as 
appropriate:
a. Report and Support;
b. Any Dignity and Respect Adviser;1
c. Your Progression Chair, Head of Department, or Vice-Dean Research; and
d. The University Complaints Procedure.
21. Departments/Schools have responsibility for ensuring that any concern raised in 
relation to the student-staff supervisory relationship are addressed through the
1 Details of the University Dignity and Respect Advisers are available at: 
https://www.strath.ac.uk/whystrathclyde/safe360/dignityrespectadvisers/

--- PAGE 5 ---

5  
appropriate channels, as outlined within the policies and guidance within paragraph 
10. 
Supervisors 
 
22. All supervisors agree to play an active role in all dimensions of the supervisory 
relationship. This incorporates the commitment outlined within the University’s Dignity 
and Respect Policy, to supporting an environment which is based on a sense of 
community and which is free from discrimination, violence (including gender-based), 
harassment, bullying and victimisation. 
 
23. Where pastoral support is concerned, students should be directed to student support 
services, as appropriate, and when it is in their best interest to do so. 
 
24. When a member of the supervisory team believes that a student’s wellbeing is at risk, 
all agree that they should make contact with the student, be sympathetic, provide an 
opportunity for the student to talk and make them aware of the University’s wellbeing 
support provision, signposting them as appropriate to the relevant support services in 
Student Experience
. PGR supervisory staff should familiarise themselves with the 
support and guidance available from Disability and Wellbeing, and in particular, the 
Helping Students in Distress Guide 2023. 
Students 
 
25. All parties agree that when a student feels they cannot speak with their supervisory 
team about an ongoing issue or wellbeing concern, they may approach any of the 
following: 
a. School/Department contact; 
b. Any Faculty PGR Wellbeing Officers; 
c. Any Dignity and Respect Advisers;1 
d. The Strathclyde Doctoral School; 
e. Report and Support (as appropriate); 
f. Strath Union’s Advice Hub; and 
g. The University’s Disability and Wellbeing Service. 
26. All parties agree that in circumstances where a student believes that a member of 
their supervisory team has acted contrary to the Dignity and Respect policy, they 
should approach any of the institution’s Dignity and Respect Advisers. If they feel 
unable to do so (for whatever reason), they may approach any of the 
services/contacts outlined above. 
Departments/Schools/Faculties 
 
27. Where concerns are raised in relation to the behaviour of a staff or student member, 
these should be investigated in line with the Dignity and Respect Policy (section 3.2). 
Note that these processes can investigate, report and make recommendations on 
behaviour-related issues, however, it is important that in the case of PGR supervisory 
relationships, consideration is also given to any remedial actions that may be required 
as a result of the breakdown in a PGR student-supervisory relationship. 
 
28. All Faculties should have a designated member of senior academic staff who has 
oversight for matters arising under the PGR Supervisory Agreement, for example the 
Vice Dean Research. In the event of a breakdown in a PGR student-supervisory

--- PAGE 6 ---

6  
relationship, this individual will be required to provide leadership for the 
implementation of any actions required within a Department/School/Research Team, 
in consultation with the Head of Department/School, as appropriate. It is important 
that this member of staff has sufficient seniority to address any challenges which may 
arise in this context. This role performs the function of the designated officer within 
the Faculty for arbitrating any disputes, and working with the Executive Dean, Head 
of Department, and professional support services (as required) to facilitate a 
resolution, set in place interim arrangements or take further action, as appropriate. 
 
29. Faculty PGR Wellbeing Contacts, in partnership with the Strathclyde Doctoral 
School, are available for any PGR students or supervisors seeking guidance or 
advice within the context of this agreement, but do not have any formal 
responsibilities to arbitrate disputes or resolutions. 
Strathclyde Doctoral School 
 
30. The Strathclyde Doctoral School can provide support and advice to any student or 
staff member who reports concerns in relation to the PGR Supervisory Agreement, 
however, it is the responsibility of the Department/School/Faculty to ensure that the 
processes are followed, as outlined within sections above. 
 
31. The Strathclyde Doctoral School may, as appropriate, consider any general issues 
relating to PGR student wellbeing and support, and will liaise with the University’s 
student support services and academic governance frameworks, as required, to 
support enhancement to the PGR student experience. 
The University 
 
32. All parties agree that the Faculty has a responsibility to ensure that each School and 
Department complies with the policies outlined below, and that appropriate 
mechanisms should be in place to ensure that this responsibility can be discharged. 
33. All parties agree that the Doctoral School has a responsibility to provide guidance on 
the implementation of the supervisory agreement and the proper conduct of the 
relationship to all parties. In addition, it may provide guidance to the Faculties should 
the supervisory relationship breakdown, however, it is the responsibility of the Faculty 
to address any matters which may impact the continuation of study for a student. 
All Parties 
 
34. All parties recognise that staff personal relationships with students are strongly 
discouraged, in line with the University’s Staff Personal Relationships Policy. This 
includes any personal or romantic relationships between the postgraduate research 
student and any of their supervisory team, as these may lead to the obstruction of 
objectivity for both researcher and supervisor during the doctorate. 
 
35. As stated within the Staff Personal Relationships Policy
, intimate relationships 
between staff and students under the age of 18 are prohibited and may result in 
criminal prosecution. Staff Personal Relationships with students over 18 are strongly 
discouraged. These relationships are more likely than other Staff Personal 
Relationships to attract concerns about abuse of power, conflict of interest, potential 
disruption of studies for the student and their peers and unprofessionalism due to the

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
pastoral nature of the relationship. 
3
6. All parties agree that in the event of a personal relationship developing between a
PGR student and a member of their supervision team, that the involved parties 
must raise this with the senior Faculty officer, as designated in paragraph 28. In 
partnership with the Head of Department/Research Team, the designated Faculty 
officer will ensure that appropriate measures are taken to appoint a change in 
supervisor, and to ensure no conflict of interest remains for the duration of the PGR 
study, progression and award.
University Support for the Supervisory Agreements 
37. All parties can seek support from the following services:
a. Strathclyde Doctoral School;
b. Student  Experience Directorate;
c. Human Resources; and
d. Education Enhancement Directorate.
Status of Agreement 
38. This agreement does not replace or supplant the University’s regulations, policies
and codes, but provides clarity over the fundamental norms and expectations
regarding supervisory relationships, and outlines the University’s commitment to
s
upporting positive supervisory relationships.