--- PAGE 1 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
1 
ORDINANCES    
 
1  MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNIVERSITY 
 
1.1  Staff 
  
1.1.1 The following persons shall be Members of the University: 
 
(a) The following Officers of the University, namely, the Chancellor, the Principal and 
Vice-Chancellor and the Vice-Principal 
(b) The Members of the Court 
(c) The Members of the Senate 
(d) The Members of the Academic Staff  (Academic, Research, Teaching, Knowledge 
Exchange) 
(e) Such other persons as shall, under Ordinances or Regulations made by the Court, 
be granted the status of Members 
 
1.1.2 Membership of the University shall continue as long as at least one of the qualifications 
above shall continue to be possessed by the individual Member. 
 
1.1.3 The Court on the recommendation of the Senate shall have power to declare such other 
persons Members of the University as it shall deem fit. 
 
1.1.4 Membership of the University may be withdrawn from an individual Member at their request 
for any reason considered by the Court on the recommendation of the Senate to be 
sufficiently cogent to justify such a request, and upon the individual entering into s uch 
undertakings and guarantees as the Court on the recommendation of the Senate may require 
to the effect that the individual will continue to observe the Statutes, Ordinances and 
Regulations of the University as though they had continued to be a Member thereof. 
 
1.2  Students 
 
1.2.1 Every person admitted to a graduating course of study in the University shall be a student 
member of the University throughout the whole period of their course. Student membership 
ceases on completion of a course of study or on withdrawal from the University for any 
reason, save that in the case of a student who successfully completes a course of graduating 
study student membership shall be deemed to continue unti l the end of the academic year 
in which they complete their course or until they graduate whichever is the later. 
  
1.2.2 Any student holding a sabbatical office in the Students’ Association shall be deemed to be a 
student member of the University until the end of the academic year in which their period of 
sabbatical office ceases. 
  
1.2.3 The names of student members of the University shall be registered by the University. The 
procedure for registration as a student member shall be prescribed by regulation s and 
associated procedures. 
  
1.2.4 Student members enjoy certain rights and privileges as members of the University and shall 
promote the interest of the University and conform to the Statutes, Ordinances and 
Regulations of the University and submit to the jurisdiction of the Senate. 
  
1.2.5 A student whose membership of the University is withdrawn at their own request under the 
provisions of Ordinance 1.1.4 above, shall nevertheless complete the prescribed registration 
procedures and shall observe the Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations as if they were a 
member of the University.

--- PAGE 2 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
2 
 
1.3 Exclusions from the University 
 
1.3.1 The Principal may refuse to admit any person as a member or student of the University, and 
may suspend any student from any class or classes, and may exclude any member or 
student or other individual(s) from any part of the University or its precincts for reas ons 
including but not limited to unreasonable, amoral or illegal conduct:  provided that any such 
suspension or exclusion shall be reported to the Court and the Senate at their next meetings. 
 
 
2   STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY 
2.1  Governance and Management 
   
  Court 
2.1.1 The Court is the overall governing body of the University.  The power and functions of the 
Court are set out in Statute 2, as are its composition and terms of membership. The Court is 
responsible for overseeing the management and administration of the whole of the revenue 
and property of the University. The Court is also responsible for academic governance but, 
on matters relating to the academic work of the University, will normally only act on the 
recommendation of the Senate. 
 
Court Officers 
2.1.2 The Convener of Court shall occupy the position of senior lay member as defined in the 
Higher Education Governance (Scotland) Act 2016 and  be appointed under the terms set 
out in Statute 2. The Convener of Court can attend in an ex officio capacity any committee 
of the University that is responsible for the management and administration of revenue, 
property, staff and students of the University (with the exception of Regulation 1.1). 
 
2.1.3 The Convener of Court may nominate Deputy Conveners for election by Court from among 
such of the Court members as are not members of staff or students of the University. One of 
the Deputy Conveners may be appointed Senior Deputy Convener. 
 
2.1.4 The Convener of Court, following consultation with the Deputy Conveners, shall nominate a 
Vice-Convener for election by Court from among such of the Court members as are not 
members of staff or students of the University. The Vice -Convener shall hold office for two 
years and shall be eligible for re-appointment but shall not serve continuously for more than 
eight years in that office.  
 
2.1.5 The Convener of Court, following consultation with the Vice -Convener and Deputy 
Conveners, shall nominate a Treasurer for election by Court from among such of the Court 
members as are not members of staff or students of the University. The Treasurer shall hold 
office for two years and shall be eligible for re-appointment but shall not serve continuously 
for more than eight years in that office. 
 
2.1.6 In the absence of the Convener of the Court the Vice-Convener of the Court shall preside at 
meetings of the Court.  In the absence of both the Convener and the Vice -Convener, the 
members present shall elect a Convener for that meeting from among those members 
present who are not members of staff or students of the Univers ity. The person presiding 
over any meeting of the Court shall have a deliberative vote and also a casting vote.

--- PAGE 3 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
3 
2.1.7 If a vacancy occurs in the office of Convener or in the office of Vice-Convener through death 
or resignation or any other cause before the expiration of the period of office, the Court shall 
elect from among its members, who are not members of staff or students of the University , 
a member to exercise any of the functions of the vacant position while the position remains 
vacant. 
  Membership of Court  
2.1.8 The membership of Court is detailed in Statute 2.5.   Court membership is attached to 
individuals: the use of ‘alternates’ (deputies or representatives) is not permitted at Court. 
 
2.1.9 When a vacancy in the position of Convener of Court arises, the Court Membership Group 
shall recommend the membership of an Appointing Committee.  
 
2.1.10 Court Membership Group shall have responsibility for:  
(i) Devising the relevant criteria with respect to the position of Convener of Court, which 
must include the availability, skills and knowledge that the appointing committee 
consider necessary or desirable to exercise the functions of Convener of Court and 
command the trust and respect of other members of the Court, of the members of the 
Senate and of the staff and students of the University; 
(ii) Ensuring the efficiency and fairness of the process for filling the position;  
(iii) Making publically available the number of applicants for the position, and, so far as 
consent to disclosure has been received from the applicants, anonymised data 
relating to the protected characteristics, listed in section 149(7) of the Equality Act 
2010, with respect to the applicants, the applicants invited to interview, and the 
applicants entitled to stand as candidates in an election for the position; 
(iv) Advertising the vacancy widely sufficient to attract applications from a broad range of 
persons and in accordance with the requirements set out in section 4 of the Higher 
Education Governance (Scotland) Act 2016; 
(v) Interviewing those applicants who appear to the committee to meet the relevant 
criteria for the position; 
(vi) Assessing whether those applicants who have been interviewed have satisfactorily 
demonstrated that they meet the relevant criteria. 
 
2.1.11 Applicants who are invited to interview may also be inv ited to meet with the Principal, 
members of the senior management, academic staff and/or with students who shall provide 
comments to the Court Membership Group  to enable them to determine whether each 
applicant has satisfactorily demonstrated that they meet the relevant criteria for the position. 
 
2.1.12 Applicants who have satisfactorily demonstrated to the Court Membership Group that they 
meet the relevant criteria and have confirmed their intention to stand as a candidate are 
entitled to stand as candidates in an election for the position of Convener of Court . An 
election shall only take place in the event that there are two or more candidates. In the event 
that there is only one candidate, a new appoint ment process shall be commenced. The 
remaining candidate shall be entitled to stand for election without further interview.  
 
2.1.13 Elections shall be conducted by t he University Secretary in accordance with a process as 
agreed by the Court, the basis of which being that: 
 
a. a list is prepared of those eligible to vote in the election (those eligible to vote include 
all members of the governing body  for the current session , all members of staff of

--- PAGE 4 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
4 
the University in post fourteen calendar days before voting opens  all students of the 
University registered on or before fourteen calendar days before voting opens)  
b. the election shall be conducted by secret ballot;  
c. the candidate who secures a simple majority of the total number of votes cast shall 
be declared the winner.  In the event of a tie, the winner shall be determined in a 
manner approved, in advance, by Court.  
d. the University Secretary shall publish the result and subsequently report to the Court; 
and 
e. if for any reason the University Secretary is unable to act the Principal shall appoint 
a substitute. 
 
2.1.14 The candidate who wins the election shall be appointed as Convener of Court who shall hold 
office for a period of two years and shall be eligible for re -appointment but shall not serve 
continuously for more than eight years in that office. 
 
2.1.15 As detailed in Statutes  2.5.6, 2.5.7 and 2.5.8 student and trade union members of Court , 
shall be nominated by the Students’ Association and trade unions. 
 
2.1.16 The nomination of such membe rs by the trade unions and the S tudents’ Association shall 
take place in sufficient time  to enable, whenever possible, an announcement of the 
successful candidates to be made, at the latest, by the last Court meeting of the academic 
year in which a nomination is due.  
 
2.1.17 The nomination of  a member of staff who is a  member of a trade union shall be the 
responsibility of the local branches of the trade unions formally recognised by the University, 
namely UCU, Unison and Unite , which shall make a nomination from within their own staff 
membership at the University.  
 
2.1.18 Each trade union shall ensure that it invites applications for nomination for membership of 
the Court from all of its members. The executive committee of the local branch of each trade 
union shall be responsible for determining its own preferred candidate for nomination and 
shall devise procedures which it shall advertise widely amongst its membership to ensure 
that the process of determining a nominee is fair, transparent, inclusive and equitable.  
 
2.1.19 Once each trade union has determined its preferred candidate for nomination, all three trade 
unions shall meet to agree the final nominations for each of the two nominated positions on 
Court, one being a member of the academic professional staff of the University staff (defined 
for the purposes of this Ordinance, as the staff categories of academic, research, teaching 
and knowledge exchange) and the other being a member of the professional services staff 
of the University   (defined for the purposes of this Ordinan ce, as the staff categories of 
administrative and professional services, technical and o perational services).  In reaching 
the final nomination, the trade unions shall have due regard to accepted principles of equality 
and diversity and shall espouse the commitment of Court to achieving greater diversity in its 
membership.  
 
2.1.20 Where a casual vacancy arises in either of the nominations from the trade unions, the trade 
unions responsible shall seek to make a new nomination as soon as possible in accordance 
with the provisions of this Ordinance and with the procedures devised by the relevant trade 
union in line with this.  The new nominee shall begin a full term of office in accordance with 
Statute 2.5.7 or 2.5.8.

--- PAGE 5 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
5 
2.1.21 A member of Court nominated by a trade union who ceases either to be a member of the 
trade union or to be a member of staff of the University shall simultaneously cease to be a 
member of the Court.  
 
2.1.22 Students referred to in Statute 2.5.6 shall include sabbatical officers of the Executive of the 
Students’ Association. The nominees of the Students’ Association shall be made by its 
Executive and shall normally be the President of the  Students’ Association and a nother 
member of the Executive. 
 
2.1.23 The procedure for nomination of candidates shall be as prescribed by the Students’ 
Association.  
 
2.1.24 Where a casual vacancy arises in members nominated by the students, the Executive of the 
Students’ Association shall seek to make a new nomination as quickly as possible. The 
Executive shall nominate one of its own number to fulfil the nomination, and that person shall 
hold office until the end of the current Executive , whereafter the new Executive shall 
nominate two new members. 
 
2.1.25 A member of Court, nominated by the Students’ Association, who ceases to be a student  
member of the University shall simultaneously cease to be a member of the Court.   
 
2.1.26 As detailed in Statute 2.5.9 the Academic professional staff (defined for the purposes of this 
Ordinance, as the staff categories of academic, research, teaching and knowledge 
exchange) of the University will nominate one of their members to be a member of Court.  
Normally this will be by a democratic election process. The selected nominee will be 
recommended to Court for approval. 
 
2.1.27 As detailed in Statute 2.5. 10 the Administrative and Professional Services (defined for the 
purposes of this Ordinance, as the staff categories of Administrative and Professional 
Services, Technical and Operational Services) of the University will nominate one of their 
members to be a member of Court. Normally this will be by a democratic election process.  
The selected nominee will be recommended to Court for approval. 
2.1.28 Elections to Court under Statute s 2.5.9 and 2.5.10  shall be conducted by the University 
Secretary in accordance with a process as agreed by the Court, the basis of which being: 
 
(a) a list shall be prepared by the University Secretary of: 
i. for Statute 2.5.9, all members of the Academic, Research , Knowledge 
Exchange and Teaching staff of the University in post on the first day of 
February, eligible to vote (those eligible to vote include all members of 
Academic, Research, Knowledge Exchange and Teaching staff as defined 
in Statute 3.2). This list, subject to any amendments made by Court under 
the agreed process, shall be the Electoral Roll for election to Court for that 
year, as appropriate; 
 
ii. for Statute 2.5.10, all members of the Administrative and Professional 
Services, Technical and Operational Services staff of the University in post 
on the first day of February, eligible to vote (those eligible to vote include all 
members of Administrative and Professional Services, Technical and 
Operational Services staff as defined in Ordinance 2.1.8). This list, subject 
to any amendments made by Court under the agreed process, shall be the 
Electoral Roll for election to Court for that year.

--- PAGE 6 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
6 
 
(b) any member of the electorate as identified on the Electoral Roll, except for Senior 
Officers, shall be eligible to stand for election , provided that they will have 
completed twelve months continuous service in the employment of the University 
by 1 February in the year of the election 
(c) the election shall be conducted by secret ballot and a single transferable vote 
system. The University Secretary shall publish the result  and subsequently report 
to the Court; and 
(d) if for any reason the University Secretary is unable to act the Principal shall appoint 
a substitute. 
 
2.1.29 As detailed in Statute 2.5.11 co-opted members of Court will be identified by  the Court 
Membership Group and recommendations will  be made to Court for approval of the 
appointments. 
 
Senate 
2.1.30 The Senate is responsible for  the academic work of the University including academic 
standards and quality. The detailed powers and functions of Senate are set out in Statute 3. 
 
2.1.31 As Chair of Senate, the Principal, may attend in an ex officio capacity any committee of the 
University. 
 
Membership of Senate 
2.1.32 The membership of Senate is detailed in Statute 3.1 and 3.2. 
 
Elections to Senate 
2.1.33 Elections to Senate under Statute 3.2 shall be conducted by the University Secretary in 
accordance with a process as agreed by the Senate, the basis of which being: 
 
(a) a list shall be prepared by the University Secretary of all members of the 
Academic, Research Knowledge Exchange and Teaching staff of the University in 
post on the first day of February of each year eligible to vote (those eligible to vote 
include all existing members of Senate and members of Academic, Research , 
Knowledge Exchange  and Teaching staff as defined in Statute 3. 3). This list, 
subject to any amendments made by Senate under the agreed process, shall be 
the Electoral Roll for election to Senate for that year; 
 
(b) the election shall be conducted by secret ballot and a single transferable vote 
system. The University Secretary shall publish the result and subsequently report 
to the Senate; and 
(c) if for any reason the University Secretary is unable to act the Principal shall appoint 
a substitute. 
Joint Committees of Court and Senate  
2.1.34 Joint Committees of the Court and Senate, as prescribed in Statute, shall be constituted by 
a resolution of the Court and shall consist of such a number of members nominated by the 
Court and such a number of members nominated by the Senate as the Court may in each 
case prescribe. Such Joint Committees shall report to both Court and Senate.  
 
Service of Notices and Documents

--- PAGE 7 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
7 
2.1.35 Any notice or document required by or for the purposes of the Charter, the Statutes, 
Ordinances or Regulations to be given or sent to a member may be given or sent personally, 
or by messenger or by post to their last address registered by the University, or by email or 
by means of a website in a method which has been  agreed with that person.  Failure to 
receive such notice or document shall not invalidate any proceedings, meetings or other 
engagements to which such notice or document relates.  
 
2.1.36 Notices relating to termination of appointments shall be given personally or sent by registered 
post. 
 
2.1.37 Where a notice or other document is sent by post, service thereof shall be deemed to have 
been properly effected by properly addressing and posting a letter containing the notice or 
other document, and shall be deemed to have been effected at the expiration of two business 
days after the letter containing the same is posted.  
 Acts During Vacancies 
2.1.38 No act or resolution of the Court, Senate, or any of the Boards of Study or Committees or 
other bodies constituted in accordance with the Statutes shall be invalid by reason only of 
any vacancy in the body doing or passing it or by reason of any want of qu alification by or 
invalidity in the election or appointment of any de facto member of the body whether present 
or absent. 
2.2  Academic Structure – Faculties 
 
2.2.1 The Court in accordance with the provisions of Statute 2, paragraph 2.1.2 has constituted 
the following Faculties: 
 
▪ The Faculty of Science 
▪ The Faculty of Engineering 
▪ The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences  
▪ The Strathclyde Business School 
 
2.2.2 Each Faculty shall consist of the Principal and the Vice -Principal ex officio, all members of 
the Academic, Research and Teaching staff of the Faculty and such other persons whether 
or not they are members of the Senate, as the Senate may from time to time determine. 
 
2.2.3 The Senate shall prescribe which Departments/Schools/or equivalent, and which Subjects 
of Study shall belong to each of the Faculties.  A Subject of Study may, if the Senate so 
directs, belong to more than one Faculty.

--- PAGE 8 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
8 
  Boards of Study 
2.2.4 The Board of Study constituted for a Faculty shall have the right to discuss any matter relating 
to that Faculty and any matter referred to it by the Senate, and to convey its views thereon 
to the Senate. 
 
2.2.5 The Executive Dean of the Faculty shall be ex officio the Convener of the Board of Study 
constituted for that Faculty. 
 
  Departmental/School Committees  
2.2.6 Each Department/School/or equivalent, of the University shall have a Departmental/School 
Committee which the Head of Department/School shall Chair.  The Departmental/School 
Committee shall comprise all members of Academic staff, Research staff and Teaching staff 
at Grade 8 and above and any probationary lecturers in the Department.  The Head of 
Department/School shall make arrangements which ensure that all other staff in the 
Department/School are appropriately represented. 
 
2.2.7 The Departmental/School Committee shall meet as the Head of Department/School 
determines but should normally meet at least once in each year, when all members of the 
Departmental/School staff shall be invited to attend to be addressed by the Head of the 
Department/School. Any member of the staff of the grouping may make representations to 
this Committee on any matter affecting the Department/School. 
 
2.3  The Academic Year  
  
2.3.1 The academic year extends from September to the following September and comprises of 
semesters, the number and the duration of which shall be prescribed by the Senate.  
 
3  AWARDS OF THE UNIVERSITY 
3.1  The University may confer the following Degrees: 
 
Bachelor of Science (BSc) 
Bachelor of Arts (BA) 
Bachelor of Education (BEd) 
Bachelor of Laws (LLB) 
Bachelor of Engineering (BEng) 
Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) 
Master in Management (MiM) 
Master in International Business with Modern Languages (MIBML) 
Master in Science (MSci) 
Master of Chemistry (MChem) 
Master of Mathematics (MMath) 
Master of Physics (MPhys) 
Master of Architecture (MArch) 
Master of Arts (MA) 
Master of Business Administration (MBA) 
Master of Communications Management (MCM) 
Master of Community Care (MCC) 
Master of Education (MEd) 
Master of Engineering (MEng) 
Master of Environmental Studies (MEnvS) 
Master of Laws (LLM) 
Master of Letters (MLitt) 
Master of Pharmacy (MPharm) 
Master of Philosophy (MPhil) 
Master of Research (MRes) 
Master of Science (MSc)

--- PAGE 9 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
9 
Master of Social Work (MSW) 
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) 
Doctor of Philosophy with Integrated Study (PhD with Integrated Study) 
Doctor of Science (DSc) 
Doctor of Letters (DLitt) 
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) 
Doctor of Education (EdD) 
Doctor of Educational Psychology (DEdPsy) 
Doctor of Engineering (EngD) 
Doctor of Information Science (DInfSci) 
Doctor of Pharmacy (DPharm) 
Some of these awards may be given jointly with other institutions as indicated in individual 
course regulations. 
 
Other awards: 
Certificate of Higher Education 
Certificate of Continuing Education 
Diploma of Higher Education 
Graduate Diploma 
Professional Graduate Diploma 
Postgraduate Certificate 
Postgraduate Diploma 
  
3.2  Honorary Degrees 
 
3.2.1 The University may, without examination, confer an Honorary Degree of master or doctor on 
any person whom it may deem worthy of such a distinction: provided that the holder of such 
an Honorary Degree shall not be entitled to practice any profession by virtue of the fact that 
they have been admitted thereto. 
 
3.2.2 The University may confer the following Honorary Degrees: 
 Master of Science (MSc), Master of Arts (MA), Master of Letters (MLitt), Doctor of Science 
(DSc), Doctor of Letters (DLitt), Doctor of Laws (LLD), Doctor of the University (DUniv), 
Doctor of Business Administration (DBA), Doctor of Engineering (EngD). 
 
3.2.3 The Honorary Degrees of the University shall be conferred by the authority of the Senate.  
The procedure for nomination and approval of candidates for Honorary Degrees shall be 
prescribed by the Senate.  
 
3.3  Conditions of Award 
  
3.3.1 In order to qualify for admission to a Degree of the University every candidate shall have: 
 
(a) Satisfied the requirements as prescribed by the Ordinances and Regulations for 
entry to an appropriate course of study 
(b) Been registered as a student member of the University 
(c) Paid the prescribed fees 
(d) Pursued the appropriate course of study for the prescribed period and passed the 
required examinations 
(e) Complied with the Ordinances and Regulations of the University. 
 
3.3.2 The Senate may permit students who have attended courses of study and passed 
examinations at other institutions approved for the purpose by Senate, to count these 
courses of study and examinations as replacement in whole or in part for this University's 
courses of study and examinations, provided that no first Degree of the University shall be 
conferred on any such student unless that student has pursued an approved course of study

--- PAGE 10 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
10 
in the University for the minimum period specified in this Ordinance and has passed the final 
or equivalent examinations relevant to the Degree. 
 
3.3.3 The requirement that no first Degree of this University shall be conferred on any student 
unless that student shall have passed the final or equivalent examinations relevant to that 
student’s course of study need not apply in the case of a student: 
 
(a) who has attended an equivalent course of study and passed examinations at such 
other institutions as may have been approved by Senate, provided the student shall 
have pursued an approved course of study in this University for the minimum period 
specified in this Ordinance; or 
(b) who has attended a degree course validated by the University and passed the final 
examinations in an institution approved by Senate for this purpose; or 
(c) who exceptionally has received, subject to the provisions of the Charter and Statutes, 
explicit authorisation from Senate acting on the recommendation of the relevant 
Board of Study. 
 
3.3.4 The normal minimum period of study for a first Degree of the University shall be two years, 
but this period shall be one year only in the case of a full-time student: 
 
(a) whose course of study is one for which the normal minimum period of study (as 
defined by regulation) is three years; or 
(b) who has been permitted to enter the penultimate year of a course of study and has 
subsequently been required or permitted to transfer to a shorter course; or 
(c) who has been permitted by the relevant Board of Study to transfer from a degree 
course validated by the University into the final year of a course in the University; or 
(d) who has been permitted by the relevant Board of Study to enter the final year of study 
of a degree course, as part of an exchange or articulation programme previously 
approved by Senate; or 
(e) who exceptionally has received, subject to the provisions of the Charter and Statutes, 
explicit authorisation from Senate acting on the recommendation of the relevant 
Board of Study. 
 
3.3.5 The period of study necessary to qualify a graduate for an additional Degree shall be not 
less than one academic year. An additional Degree shall for these purposes be defined as 
Degree of Bachelor for which the qualification for admission to the course is possession of a 
Degree or of a qualification deemed to be equivalent to a Degree, and a graduate shall for 
these purposes include a person possessing a qualification deemed to be equivalent to a 
Degree. 
 
3.3.6 To be admitted to the Degree of Master a student must have pursued a course of full -time 
study for not less than one year, or of part -time study for not less than two years, under 
conditions prescribed by the Senate. 
 
3.3.7 To be admitted to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy a student must have pursued a course 
of full-time study for not less than two years, or of part -time study for not less than three 
years, under conditions prescribed by the Senate. 
 
3.3.8 The period of prescribed study shall date from the beginning of the semester in which the 
application for registration is approved by the Senate. 
 
3.3.9 Candidates seeking admission to Higher Degrees other than those specified in paragraph 
3.1 will require to satisfy the regulations for such Higher Degrees as are prescribed by the 
Senate.

--- PAGE 11 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
11 
3.3.10 The Degrees (other than Honorary Degrees), Diplomas, Certificates, Fellowships, 
Scholarships, Prizes and other awards of the University shall be conferred by the authority 
of the Senate on the recommendation of the Board of Study of the Faculty concerned. 
 
Posthumous Awards 
3.3.11 A posthumous award may be considered where a student has died and has either; completed 
the programme of study, including the required assessments, and has satisfied the 
requirements for the award; or has not completed the programme of study but would be 
eligible for an aegrotat award. 
 
Aegrotat Awards 
3.3.12 An aegrotat award is an award, without classification, that may be made if a candidate is 
prevented from completing their studies and/or assessments by illness, death, or other cause 
deemed by the Senate to be sufficient. The Senate may award an aegrotat Degree, Diploma, 
or Certificate where there is sufficient evidence that the candidate would have satisfied the 
standard required for the award, had they been able to continue.  
 
3.4  Examiners and Examinations 
  
3.4.1 Examinations for a Degree, Diploma or Certificate of the University, whether taken at one 
time or in sections, shall be the responsibility of Boards of Examiners, comprising the Internal 
and External Examiners for each of the subjects or groups of subjects included in the scope 
of the examination. 
 
3.4.2 In all final examinations there shall be at least two examiners, one at least of whom shall not 
be a member of the academic staff of the University. 
 
3.4.3 The External Examiners of the University shall be appointed by the Senate on the 
recommendation of the Board of Study of the Faculty concerned and shall be eligible for 
reappointment provided that no External Examiner shall hold office for more than four 
consecutive years except in exceptional circumstances.  
 
3.4.4 The Internal Examiners of the University shall be appointed by the Senate on the 
recommendation of the Board of Study concerned from the members of the academic staff 
(as defined in Ordinance 1.1.1) of the University.  Members of the academic staff of other 
educational institutions involved in the provision of degree or diploma courses of the 
University may be appointed by the Senate as Internal Examiners for the degree or diploma 
course in question and shall in their ca pacity as Examiners be subject t o the same duties 
and obligations as members of the academic staff of the University. 
 
3.4.5 Any person appointed as an Internal Examiner who has any relationship other than that of 
teacher or supervisor with any of the candidates whose examination the Examiners are 
undertaking, or any person who expects that they will find themselves in such a po sition, 
shall declare the nature of the relationship to the Professional Service Director whose remit 
covers the appointment of examiners, who shall notify the Chair of the Examiners. 
 
3.4.6 No candidate shall be admitted to any examination unless they have satisfied the 
requirements laid down in Ordinances and Regulations or have been exempted from any 
special requirements by the Senate on the recommendation of the Board of the Faculty 
concerned and have paid the fees prescribed. 
 
3.4.7 The list of successful candidates in every examination, arranged as prescribed by 
Regulations, shall be prepared by the Board of Examiners concerned and signed by the 
Chair of that Board. Except as may be provided for by Regulations, all decisions of Boards 
of Examiners shall be regarded as final. 
 
3.5  Congregations

--- PAGE 12 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
12 
 
3.5.1 For the purpose of conferring Degrees of the University, there shall be held a meeting of the 
whole University which shall be called a Congregation. 
 
3.5.2 A Congregation shall be held at least once every year at such time and place as shall be 
determined by the Senate, and shall be presided over by the Chancellor or, in his/her 
absence, by the Vice-Chancellor. 
 
3.5.3 In the absence of the Chancellor and the Vice -Chancellor the Vice-Principal shall preside, 
failing whom a senior member of academic staff nominated by the Senate shall preside and 
shall confer Degrees. 
 
3.5.4 Graduands other than honorary graduands shall be presented for admission by the 
Executive Dean of the Faculty concerned.  In the absence of the Executive Dean the 
graduands concerned shall be presented by the Vice -Dean of the Faculty concerned, or 
equivalent, or a member of Senate appointed by the Principal. Honorary graduands shall be 
presented for admission by persons appointed by the Senate for that purpose. 
 
3.5.5 With the approval of the Senate, Degrees may be conferred in absentia.  
 
3.5.6 No person shall be admitted to a Degree (other than an Honorary Degree) or granted a 
Diploma or Certificate unless they have paid the fees prescribed and any other sums due to 
the University.  
 
3.5.7 The procedure for summoning a Congregation, for the presentation of graduands and for the 
conferring of Degrees in absentia, and all other matters relating to Congregation, shall be 
determined by the Senate. 
 
4 STAFF OF THE UNIVERSITY 
 
4.1  Senior Officers of the University 
 
 The Principal and Vice Chancellor 
4.1.1 Appointment of the Principal is as defined in the Statutes. 
 
 The Vice-Principal 
4.1.2 The Vice-Principal shall exercise such functions and responsibilities, and be engaged at such 
remuneration and upon such terms and conditio ns as the Court shall deem fit. During the 
absence of the Principal the Vice-Principal shall undertake any such functions and duties of 
the Principal as the Principal or the Court may delegate to him/her.  
 
4.1.3 The Vice -Principal shall normally hold office for a period of five years (unless otherwise 
determined by the Appointment Committee or the Court). 
  
 The University Secretary 
4.1.4 The University Secretary shall be appointed as defined in the Charter and Statutes and shall, 
under the direction of the Principal, be responsible for the administration of the University , 
for providing secretarial services for the Court and the Senat e and for the strategic 
management of relevant Professional Service functions. 
 
 The University Compliance Officer 
4.1.5 The University Compliance Officer, under the direction of the Principal, shall be responsible 
for the coordination of institutional compliance -based activities and the strategic 
management of relevant Professional Service functions.

--- PAGE 13 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
13 
 
 
 The Chief Commercial Officer 
4.1.6 The Chief Commercial Officer, under the direction of the Principal, shall be responsible for 
the management of the University’s commercial and business development activities and the 
strategic management of relevant Professional Service functions. 
 
 The Chief Financial Officer 
4.1.7 The Chief Financial Officer, under the direction of the Principal, shall be responsible for the 
financial management of the University and the strategic management of relevant 
Professional Service functions. 
 
 The Chief Digital and Information Officer  
4.1.8 The Chief Digital and Information Officer, under the direction of the Principal, shall be 
responsible for the development and implementation of digital and information strategy for 
the University and the strategic management of relevant Professional Services functions. 
 
4.1.9    The Chief People Officer 
            The Chief People Officer, under the direction of the principal , shall be responsible for  the 
development and implementation of the people strategy for the University and the strategic 
management of relevant Professional Service functions 
 
 Associate Principal & Executive Dean 
4.1.10 An Associate Principal & Executive Dean shall be appointed for each Faculty. The functions 
and responsibilities of the office of Associate Principal & Executive Dean shall be as 
determined by the Court and will include contributing to the overall leadership of the 
University.  
 
 Associate Principal 
4.1.11  Associate Principals may be appointed under the direction of the Principal or Vice-Principal 
following Court’s approval of specified portfolio areas of leadership responsibility and shall 
exercise such functions and responsibilities, and be engaged at such remuneration and upon 
such terms and conditions as the Court shall deem fit. 
 
 General Conditions for the Appointment of University Officers – for the offices of Vice- 
Principal, University Secretary, Chief  Commercial Officer , Chief Financial Officer , 
Chief Digital and Information Officer, Chief People Officer  Associate Principal & 
Executive Dean, and Associate Principal. 
 
4.1.12 These senior University Officers shall be appointed, pursuant to any provisions within the 
Charter and Statutes, by an Appointment Committee established by Court and be engaged 
at such remuneration and upon such terms and conditions as the Court shall deem fit. 
 
4.1.13 The arrangements and constitution of the Appointment Committee shall be provided for within 
relevant policies and procedures approved by the Staff Committee, on behalf of Court. 
 
4.1.14 Notwithstanding such policies and procedures, an Appointment Committee shall have the 
power to seek external assessments for any or all candidates for any or all of the above 
posts. 
 
4.1.15 Normally n o person shall be a member of an Appointment C ommittee considering the 
appointment of his/her successor. 
 
4.1.16 The requirements above shall not prejudice office holders appointed prior to the 
implementation of these provisions.

--- PAGE 14 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
14 
4.2  Appointment of Staff 
 
4.2.1 Pursuant to Statute 2, the Court may, from time to time, appoint such members of staff as 
may be deemed necessary for the efficient functioning of the University, with such duties and 
conditions of service including remuneration as the Court may prescribe. There shall be 
appropriate procedures for the appointment of University staff including but not restricted to: 
 
a) Appointment of Academic Professional Staff (as defined in Ordinance 1.1.1) 
b) Appointment of Support staff (Administrative and Professional Services, Technical 
Services, Operational Services) 
c) Promotion and Regrading Procedures 
d) Emeritus and Visiting Professorships 
 
4.2.2 Such procedures shall be subject to approval by the Staff Committee, on behalf of the Court, 
and shall be published on the website. 
 
4.3 University Staff: Formal Procedures 
4.3.1 There shall be published procedures governing arrangements for all University staff in 
relation to: 
 
a) Discipline 
b) Grievances 
c) Capability (ill-health) 
d) The use of fixed-term and open-ended employment contracts 
e) Withdrawal of the title of Emeritus Professors 
 
4.3.2 Such procedures shall be subject to approval by the Staff Committee, on behalf of  
the Court, and shall be published on the website.  
 
4.5  Removal of Certain Officers and Members  
 
4.5.1 The Chancellor and any member of the Court (other than an ex officio member or a member 
of staff to whom Ordinance 4.3 applies) may be removed from office, after investigation, on 
the grounds of serious personal misconduct, inability to exercise the functions of Convener 
of Court or of membership of the Court, abuse of the rights and privileges of membership of 
Court, bringing the University into disrepute, persistent absenteeism , medical incapacity or 
legal impediment.  
 
4.5.2  When an investigation of the case for removal from office of a member of Court has been 
instigated, the individual concerned shall be suspended from Court membership without 
prejudice pending the outcome of the investigation and the Court’s decision thereon, but 
shall have the right to make representation to, and to appear in person before, the 
investigators.  
 
4.5.3 If the investigation concludes that there are grounds for removal from office, a 
recommendation, together with a summary of the supporting evidence, shall be submitted 
for the Court’s decision.  The Court may then decide to remove the member from office, 
provided that at least 75% of those present and voting are in agreement.  
 
4.5.4 If the investigation concludes that the grounds for dismissal cannot be substantiated or are 
insufficient and if the Court accepts that conclusion, then the suspension of the member 
concerned shall be immediately rescinded.  
 
4.5.5 In the event that the Court decides to remove one of its members from office, that member 
shall have the right to seek a review of the decision.

--- PAGE 15 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
15 
 
5 STUDENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY 
 
5.1  The Students’ Association 
5.1.1 There shall be a Students ’ Association of the University for the promotion of the general 
interests of students and to afford a recognised channel of communication between students 
and the University authorities. 
 
5.1.2 Membership of the Association shall be ordinary, associate , exchange and lifetime. All full-
time and part -time graduating students, undergraduate or postgraduate, of the University 
shall be ordinary m embers. However, in accordance with the Education Act 1994 Part II: 
Student Unions, students are entitled to opt out of their membership of the Students’ 
Association and will not suffer unfair disadvant age from exercising this right. The Code of 
Practice required by the Act governing the relationship between the University and the 
students may be viewed on request at the Students’ Association’s administration offices, the 
University’s Main Library and from the Student Experience Team. The Students’ Association 
Executive Committee may from time to time confer Lifetime Membership on students who 
have previously been ordinary members of the Association, in recognition of services to the 
Association. Students suspended from their studies or those deemed to be registered with 
attendance, shall be associate members of the Association. Exchange membership shall be 
granted to any non-graduating student of the University; exchange members can vote in any 
Association election but cannot stand for election for any office.  Only ordinary members may 
stand for elected office of the Association.  
 
5.1.3 Regulations shall be prepared by the Association for the furtherance of the objects of the 
Association. These regulations and any alteration or abrogation thereof shall be of effect and 
binding on all members of the Association immediately upon receiving the approval of the 
Senate and Court. They shall provide inter alia for General Meetings of the Association, for 
referenda which all students vote on, for the election of Officers, for the election of two 
members of the Association to be members of Court and for the procedure to be followed in 
the nomination of the student members of the University Committees, and for the affiliation 
of Student Societies and Sports Clubs to the Association.  The Court shall have the right to 
introduce, alter or rescind regulations in what it deems to be exceptional circumstances, but 
not without prior consultation with the approved representatives of the Students’ Association. 
 
5.1.4 The functions of the Executive Committee, Trustee Board and Policy Council, subject to the 
Regulations of the Association, shall be to represent the Association in all matters affecting 
its interest and to administer the finances of the Association.  
 
5.1.5 The accounts of the Association shall be audited at the end of each financial year by a public 
accountant in the active practice of their profession approved by the Court, and a copy of the 
accounts, with the signed report by the auditor, shall be submitted to the Court. 
 
5.1.6 The Chief Financial Officer may, on the request of the Students’ Association, designate any 
sum due to the Students’ Association as a debt due to the University. 
 
5.1.7 In accordance with the Education Act 1994 Part II: Student Unions, the provisions of the 
constitution of the Students’ Association shall be subject to the approval of the University 
and review by the University at intervals of not more than five years. 
 
5.2 Student Discipline 
 
5.2.1 Every student of the University shall be subject to such disciplinary Regulations as shall from 
time to time be passed by Senate and approved by Court. In addition, Students shall also be 
subject to any subsequent policies, procedures or notices in regard to Student Discipline that 
may be approved by Senate.

--- PAGE 16 ---

ORDINANCES of the University of Strathclyde 
 
16 
 
5.2.2 The Principal may suspend any student from attendance at any class or classes or exclude 
any student from the University or its precincts for reasons including but not limited to 
unreasonable, amoral or illegal conduct, and shall report every such case to the Court and 
the Senate at their next meetings. 
 
5.2.3 Members of the academic staff, senior professional officers, the members of the Students’ 
Association Executive Committee and other persons authorised for the purpose shall have 
authority to check disorderly or improper conduct or any breach of regulations. 
 
5.2.4 Any member of the academic staff may, if they deem it necessary, require any student who 
is behaving in a disorderly or improper manner in a lecture room or laboratory to withdraw 
from the room for the day, and shall immediately bring the offence to the notice of the Head 
of the Department/School concerned or to their depute. 
 
5.2.5 The Director of Information Services or his/her depute shall be especially responsible for 
maintaining order in the Library and may require any person who is behaving in a disorderly 
or improper manner or who is in breach of regulations to withdraw from th e Library for the 
day. 
 
5.2.6 Students may be required to make good, to the satisfaction of the Court, any damage they 
may cause to the property of the University. 
 
5.2.7 Students shall be held responsible for making themselves acquainted with all Ordinances, 
Regulations and official Notices which affect them. Failure to comply with the requirements 
of such notices may result in disciplinary action against a student, in accordance with any 
disciplinary procedures which are in force.