--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulations 
 
1 CONSTITUTIONAL REGULATIONS 
1.1 Executive Team 
 
Terms of Reference 
1.1.1 The Executive Team is responsible for providing recommendations on the overall 
strategic direction for the University, for considering all major initiatives emerging and 
the resources required to support them, and for proposing these to the Senate and the 
Court as appropriate for final approval. 
 
In particular the Executive Team is responsible for 
(a) developing the overall strategic direction of the University, taking account of the 
resources at its disposal and the need to ensure sustainability in all aspects of 
University business, and making proposals on these, as appropriate, to the 
Senate and to Court for final approval; 
(b) considering policy proposals on the University budget, on resource allocation 
priorities, on physical development, on employment and any other University 
business, for onward transmission and decision at the Court; 
(c) considering policy proposals on the teaching, research and academic 
development and on the academic priorities of the University, and on any other 
matter within the remit of the Senate – including, specifically, recommendations 
on University ceremonials and the award of honorary degrees, and for 
recommending these to the Senate for final approval; 
(d) considering all major initiatives emerging from both within and outwith the 
University and whether or not these should be pursued, taking account of the 
fit with the overall University strategy, the resources required to support them, 
their sustainability and the overall priority to be attached to them; 
(e) engaging with the Court Business Group in order to consider key proposals 
emerging within the University before they are forwarded to the Court for 
consideration and approval; 
(f) developing and maintaining a Strategic Investment Framework embracing a 
holistic approach to the development of major initiatives across the University, 
taking account of the resources required to support these, including staff, 
funding, information technology and estates, and also, in a similar approach, 
considering areas of disinvestment and proposing these to the Court for 
approval; 
(g) monitoring the implementation of these major strategic developments and 
regularly reviewing the overall University strategy to ensure that it remains 
relevant and sustainable. 
 
Composition 
1.1.2 The Executive Team will be composed of: 
(a) The Principal ex officio (Convener) 
(b) The Vice-Principal ex officio 
(c) The Associate Principal & Executive Dean of each Faculty ex officio 
(d) The Chief Commercial Officer ex officio 
(e) The Chief Financial Officer ex officio 
(f) The Chief People Officer ex officio 
(g) The Associate Principal(s) ex officio 
(h) The University Secretary ex officio

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
 
 
 
(i) The University Compliance Officer ex officio 
(j) The Director of Strategic Planning ex officio 
(k) The Director of Marketing and Development Services ex officio 
 
1.2 Committees of Court 
 
Remuneration Committee 
Terms of reference: 
1.2.1 To be responsible for 
 
a) receiving comparative information on senior salaries and, where relevant, other 
emoluments and conditions of service, in the university sector and beyond as 
appropriate. 
b) assessing the performance of and confirming the remuneration and conditions of 
service of, the Principal, taking account, where relevant, of the provisions of the 
Charter, Statutes and Ordinances.  In assessing the performance of the Principal, 
views will be sought from all members of Court and account will be taken of the 
implementation of the University’s strategic plan and the achievement of Key 
Performance Indicators agreed by Court; 
c) confirming the remuneration and conditions of service of the University Secretary, 
taking account, where relevant, of the provisions of the Charter, Statutes and 
Ordinances; 
d) confirming the remuneration and conditions of service of other employed Senior 
Officers required for the proper governance of the University, taking into account, 
where relevant, the provisions of the Charter, Statutes and Ordinances. These posts 
being the Vice-Principal, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Commercial Officer, the 
University Compliance Officer, the Chief People Officer,   the Executive Dean and 
Associate Principal of each Faculty and the Associate Principals; 
e) ensuring appropriate arrangements are in place for seeking the views of key University 
stakeholders in relation to the remuneration of the Principal and the Senior Officers 
listed above; 
f) confirming the remuneration and conditions of service of the Directors of Professional 
Services required for the proper governance of the University, taking into account, 
where relevant, the provisions of the Charter, Statutes and Ordinances; 
g) reviewing performance information of the above post holders, normally on an annual 
basis, and determining what adjustments should be made to the remuneration and 
conditions of service; 
h) confirming the terms of agreed severance and/or early retirement of any of the above 
post holders. In so-doing, Remuneration Committee will ensure that it does not agree 
to any severance package which might be reasonably deemed excessive and that 
decisions made are in line with the University’s Voluntary Severance Approval 
Arrangements’ procedure which is compliant with the Scottish Funding Council’s 
Financial Memorandum for Higher Education Institutions. 
i) deciding on any issues referred to it involving the remuneration and conditions of 
service of Senior Staff where such a referral would represent good practice in the 
conduct of public life; 
j) confirming the University’s position on the affordability and acceptability of the terms 
of any national pay agreement proposed or entered into by the Universities and 
Colleges Employers Association; 
k) ensuring that, in keeping within the terms of data protection legislation, pay decisions 
are appropriately transparent and salaries of the Executive Team are published by 
salary band; 
l) reviewing and recommending to Court, at appropriate intervals, the policies and 
processes in place to support the Committee’s decision-making, including any 
material changes to these;

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
 
 
 
m) reporting to Court on an annual basis with sufficient detail to satisfy Court 
that the responsibilities outlined above have been appropriately discharged. 
 
Composition: 
 
1.2.2 The Committee will be composed of: 
a) The Convener of Court ex officio  
b) The Treasurer ex officio 
c) Up to five other members, appointed based on their skills and experience. 
These may be existing members of Court or external individuals co-opted to 
provide expertise not otherwise available amongst the membership of Court, 
subject to there being a majority of lay members on the Committee at all 
times (with the majority of these being members of Court) * 
 
The Committee’s Convener must be a lay member of Court and must not be the 
Convener of Court. 
 
In attendance: The Principal** 
Secretary: Chief People Officer*** 
* Members of Court serving on the Committee will do so for a period concurrent with 
their membership of Court. Externally co-opted members will serve for an initial period 
of up to three years and will be eligible for reappointment twice. 
 
** The Principal is not a member of the Remuneration Committee but will attend 
meetings at the invitation of the Chair in order to inform discussions on the 
remuneration and conditions of service of other Senior Officers. The Principal will 
not attend when their own remuneration and/or conditions of service are 
considered or determined. 
*** The Secretary will withdraw when their own case is being considered. Joint 
Negotiating and Consultative Committee (Court and UCU) 
1.2.3 The Court has established a Joint Negotiating and Consultative Committee (Court and 
UCU). Court shall nominate four members annually to the Committee at least two of 
whom shall be members of Court or of the University Management Committee and four 
members nominated annually by the Strathclyde University and Colleges Union, all of 
whom shall be full members of the Union, to consult and negotiate on the terms and 
conditions of employment of academic and academic -related staff, and to make 
recommendations and reports to the Staff Committee, all in terms of an Agreement 
concluded by the Court with the Strathclyde University and Colleges Union. 
 
Joint Consultative Committees with Unison, for Manual Staff and for Technician Staff 
1.2.4 The Staff Committee has established three Joint Consultative Committees, concerned 
with Unison, with manual staff, and with technician staff respectively, each comprising 
two members appointed by the Staff Committee (one of whom shall be Convener), the 
Chief People Officer or their nominee, if appropriate one member of the academic or 
administrative staff appointed by the Staff Committee nominees, and up to five 
members appointed by the staff associations and trade unions representing the staff 
concerned. Their terms of reference are (a) to discuss matters of mutual interest to the 
University and the staff represented on the committee concerned as may be requested 
by the Staff Committee or by the staff representatives, in order to foster the best 
possible relations between the University in its role as employer and the members of 
its non- teaching staff; and (b) to make reports and recommendations to the Staff 
Committee on matters discussed.

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Advisory Committee on Safety and Occupational Health 
 
Terms of Reference 
1.2.5 SACSOH meets three times per year to fulfil its remit and carry out the following: 
a) Provide a mechanism for the effective consultation with all staff through the Trade 
Union Health and Safety representatives on matters affecting their health, safety and 
wellbeing; 
b) Ensure that a suitable health and safety management structure is in place within the 
University, to maximise the protection of the health, safety and security of all staff, 
students, visitors and contractors and to ensure legislative compliance; 
c) Plan and report to the Committee on progress in relation to safety, health and wellbeing 
strategy, including objectives and priorities; 
d) Review and approve all corporate OHS written arrangements, including the OHSaW 
Policy and associated written standards and supporting documentation; 
e) Monitor the implementation and operation of the University’s Occupational Health, 
Safety and Wellbeing Policy statement and management arrangements, to ensure the 
key risks are identified, and appropriate control measures are in place via reports from: 
i. Executive Officers; 
ii. The Director of Safety, Wellbeing and Resilience;  
iii. The Director of Estate Services; 
iv. The Head of Security Services; 
v. The Chief People Officer; 
vi. The Director of Student Experience; 
vii. Each of the Faculty/Professional Services Representatives relating to matters 
escalated from departmental safety committees in their area; 
viii. The President of Strath Union.  
 
f) Consider any findings following health and safety inspections of the workplace and any 
investigations of accidents, incidents, ill health, cases of occupational disease or 
dangerous occurrences undertaken by Trade Union representatives; 
g) Consider reports from the Health and Safety Executive and other relevant enforcement 
authorities; 
h) Consider safety, health and wellbeing matters raised by the Executive Team where 
appropriate; 
i) Review the provision of health and safety training for staff;  
j) Monitor and review the 3-year rolling OHS Audit Programme 
k) Report to the University Court on the activities of the Committee, the effectiveness of 
the occupational health and safety management system, and actions to ensure its 
continual improvement. 
 
1.2.6 The Constitution of the Committee is as follows: 
l) Committee Chair: A lay member of Court, appointed by the Court. In the absence of 
the Chair, the University Compliance Officer (UCO) will chair meetings. 
m) Ex-Officio Members: The UCO (in their absence a member of the University Executive 
Team, as nominated by the UCO), Director of Safety, Wellbeing and Resilience and the 
Health and Safety Manager. 
n) Faculty and Professional Services Representatives: One representative nominated 
by the Executive Dean of each Faculty and one representative for Professional 
Services nominated by the UCO. 
o) Trade Union Representatives: One representative nominated by each of the 
University’s recognised Trade Unions (UCU, Unison and Unite). 
p) Management Representatives: Executive Officers or their nominated representative, 
the Chief People Officer, the Director of Estate Services, the Director of Student

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
 
 
 
 
Experience and the Head of Security Services (or their nominated representative). 
q) A Student Representative: One representative from Strath Union, is nominated. This 
will normally be the President of Strath Union, who remains a member of the Committee 
for the length of their term in office. 
r) Co-opted members: Such other members that the Convener may wish to co-opt 
because of their expertise, either members of Court or individuals external to the 
University. 
s) Other individuals: Persons from within or outwith the University may be invited to 
attend or support the work of the Committee as required by the Chair. This currently 
includes the Chief Executive of Strath Union, or nominee. 
t) Secretary to the Committee: The Committee Chair appoints a Committee Manager to 
act in this role. 
1.2.7 The duties of SACSOH members are to: 
a) Attend the committee meetings or send a suitable nominated representative. 
b) Provide reports to the Committee on agenda items as appropriate. 
c) Report to the Committee on annual plans, priorities and objectives; updating the 
Committee on progress at each meeting. 
d) Communicate relevant committee matters to other interested stakeholders as 
appropriate. 
e) Actively participate in suitable training for the role of committee member. 
f) Report any serious matters of concern to the Committee for the purposes of 
consultation. 
 
1.2.8 Organisation 
a) The University publishes the meeting dates on an annual basis in advance of the first 
meeting of the new meeting cycle in September of each year. 
b) Meetings should not be cancelled or postponed except in exceptional circumstances, 
when the rearranged date should be announced as soon as possible. 
c) A meeting agenda, draft minutes and committee papers are made available on the 
SACSOH SharePoint site 7 days in advance of the next committee meeting. 
d) Responsibility for meeting arrangements and facilitation, as well as recording minutes 
and distributing committee papers lies with the SACSOH Committee Manager. 
e) Draft minutes of each meeting are agreed with the Chair of the Committee before 
circulating to committee members no later than 21 days after the date of each meeting. 
f) Terms of Reference are reviewed and approved by SACSOH on an annual basis. 
g) The Committee is quorate with 5 members present, i.e. the Chair of the Committee (or 
their nominated representative), two management representatives and two 
representatives for staff/students 
 
 
Audit and Risk Committee 
Terms of Reference 
 
Purpose 
1.2.9 The Audit and Risk Committee reports to the University Court and oversees the 
arrangements for risk, internal control and governance, including the associated 
assurances related to these systems. 
1.2.10 The committee is authorised by Court to obtain outside legal or other independent 
professional advice and to secure the attendance of non -members with relevant 
experience and expertise if it considers this necessary, normally in consultation with 
the Principal and/or convener of Court. 
1.2.11 It is also authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek 
any information it requires from any employee, and all employees are directed to co-  
operate with any request made by the committee.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
 
 
 
 
Main Duties 
1.2.12 The specific duties of the Audit and Risk Committee shall be to: 
 
Internal Controls 
(a) keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the University’s corporate 
governance arrangements, and its financial and other internal controls systems, 
(b) consider the effectiveness of the University’s policy on whistleblowing and its 
arrangements for the prevention, detection or investigation of questions of fraud or 
other financial irregularities and be notified of any actions taken in line with such 
arrangements 
(c) to monitor and be satisfied that suitable arrangements are in place to promote 
economy, efficiency and effectiveness (value for money) in the management of the 
University’s resources 
(d) ensure the appropriate investigation of significant losses and that the relevant parties 
have been informed 
 
Internal Audit 
(e) consider and advise the Court on the criteria for the selection and appointment of the 
Head of the Internal Audit Service or the appointment and terms of engagement of the 
internal audit service 
(f) review and endorse the Internal Audit Service’s draft assurance strategy and annual 
plans; consider major findings of internal audit reviews and management’s response 
and be satisfied that appropriate action is taken 
(g) monitor the implementation of agreed audit-based recommendations 
(h) consider if the resources made available to the Internal Audit Service are sufficient to 
meet the University’s needs and make recommendations to the Court, if appropriate 
(i) promote co-ordination between the internal and external auditors 
 
External Audit 
(j) advise the Court on the appointment of the external auditors, the audit fee, and any 
questions of resignation or dismissal of the external auditors 
(k) discuss with the external auditors, before the annual audit begins, the nature and 
scope of the audit 
(l) review the annual financial statements, prior to submission to the Court, in the 
presence of the external auditors and alongside the auditors’ formal opinion, the 
Management Letter and the Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Control, 
in accordance with the Scottish Funding Council’s accounts direction, financial 
memorandum and other relevant direction and guidance 
(m) discuss with the external auditors any issues and reservations arising from the annual 
audit, including a review of the management letter, incorporating management 
responses and any other matters the external auditors may wish to discuss (in the 
absence of management where necessary) 
(n) to review and approve policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-
audit services 
(o) monitor annually the performance and effectiveness of the external auditors, including 
any matters affecting their independence or objectivity, and make recommendations 
to the Court concerning their reappointment, where appropriate 
 
Risk Management 
(p) to monitor and ensure the effectiveness of the University's approach to risk 
assessment and management through regular review of the Corporate Risk Register 
and reports from relevant University officers or committees. 
(q) to review the prioritisation of risk management focus via the Corporate Risk Register, 
taking into account financial, reputational and commercial risks.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
 
 
 
 
(r) to ensure that audit work is informed by risk management 
 
Reports 
(s) consider the impacts of reports or guidance issued by relevant external bodies, 
including the Scottish Funding Council, and make recommendations to the Court, 
where appropriate 
(t) to receive, as appropriate, reports on the implementation of major projects within the 
University covering progress, risks and mitigations. 
(u) to receive reports, as appropriate, where there is a potential reputational, commercial 
and/or financial risk to the University. 
(v) Prepare and present to Court, and subsequently to the Scottish Funding Council, an 
annual report covering the University’s financial year and any significant events up to 
the date of preparation. The report should express opinions in relation to the 
committee’s review of the effectiveness of institutional arrangements for: 
i. Risk management, control and governance (including the adequacy of the 
governance statement) 
ii. Economy, efficiency and effectiveness (value for money) 
 
Other 
(w) consider such other topics as may be remitted by the Court from time to time 
(x) review, on an annual basis and in consultation with Court, the committee’s own 
performance against accepted good practice 
 
Composition 
1.2.13 The Committee shall consist of no fewer than three lay members of the Court, of whom 
one shall be Convener. At least one member shall have recent relevant experience in 
finance, accounting or auditing. The Committee may co- opt up to three further 
individuals external to the University, who should not have significant interests in the 
University, for a period of time to be determined by the Committee. Neither  the 
convener of Court nor the Treasurer of Court should be a member of the committee, 
although the treasurer will attend once a year for the meeting at which the Annual 
Financial Statements are considered by ARC. 
1.2.14 In the absence of the convener at any meeting of the Committee, the Committee shall 
appoint any of its members as Acting Convener for that meeting. 
1.2.15 The Convener of ARC shall not concurrently be a member of the Remuneration 
Committee. The meeting shall normally be attended by the following staff members of 
the University 
• The Principal 
• Chief Financial Officer 
• University Compliance Officer 
• Head of Internal Audit 
• Senior Internal Auditor 
Meetings 
1.2.16 Meetings shall normally be held at least four times each financial year. The external  
auditors or head of internal audit may request a meeting if they consider it necessary. 
 
1.2.17 The committee should meet with the external and internal auditors, without any officers 
present, at least once a year.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
 
 
 
1.2.18 There shall be a quorum at any meeting of the Committee when not less than 3 
members, at least 2 of whom are members of Court, are present. In the absence of a 
quorum no business shall be transacted other than the adjournment of the meeting.              
Court Business Group 
Terms of Reference 
1.2.19 The Committee’s purpose will be: 
(a) To support the formulation, development and delivery of the University’s 
strategy and long term sustainability; 
(b) To consider and advise Court on strategic policy development across all 
aspects of the University’s business, including the initiation of strategic policy 
reviews; 
(c) To support and challenge the formulation of strategic and annual financial plans 
and forecasts aligned to the delivery of the Court’s strategic plans; 
(d) To consider the University’s performance and progress against plan including 
review of quarterly Business Reports; 
(e) To undertake other duties delegated to it by the Court as specified in the 
Scheme of Delegation. 
 
Composition 
1.2.20 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) The Convener of Court ex officio (in the Chair) 
(b) The Vice-Convener of Court ex officio 
(c) The Treasurer ex officio 
(d) Up to two appointed lay members of Court 
(e) The Principal ex officio 
(f) The Vice-Principal ex officio 
(g) The University Secretary 
(h) The Chief Financial Officer 
(i) An appointed student member of Court 
(j) An appointed staff member of Court 
 
Court Membership Group 
Terms of Reference 
1.2.21 The Committee’s purpose will be: 
(a) To consider nominations of named individuals to be considered as potential 
lay members of Court with the intention that said members, ideally, should 
represent a spread of expertise and skills; 
(b) To consider the matter of succession planning in relation to membership of 
Court, the relevant committees of Court and to the University Committees 
which include representation from Court; 
(c) To consider the nominations of the Deputy Conveners (by whatever title) 
and the length of term of such appointments; 
(d) To make recommendations to Court on the above matters as and when 
appropriate; 
(e) To consider succession planning for the office of the Chancellor, including 
considering named individuals as potential candidates for this office, and 
making recommendations to Court and Senate on this matter as and when 
appropriate. 
To oversee the appointment of an appointment committee when a vacancy 
in the position of Convener of Court arises. 
 
Composition 
1.2.22 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) The Convener of Court ex officio (in the Chair) 
(b) The Vice-Convener of Court ex officio

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 
 
 
 
 
(c) The Treasurer ex officio 
(d) The Deputy Convener of Court (Estates) ex officio 
(e) The Deputy Convener of Court (Staff) ex officio 
(f) The Principal ex officio 
(g) The Vice-Principal ex officio 
(h) An appointed student member of Court 
(i) An appointed staff member of Court 
(j) An appointed lay member of Court 
 
In attendance: The University Secretary and other senior officers, as appropriate 
 
*When assuming the role of appointing committee for the position of Convener of Court, the 
Convener of Court and any persons who wish to seek candidacy for the vacancy must 
recuse themselves from discussion of the vacancy and appointment process. The Vice- 
Convener of Court will normally assume the Chair unless that person wishes to be 
considered for the role of Convener of Court. 
 
 
Enterprise and Investment Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.2.23 The Committee’s purpose will be: 
(a) To review commercial investment proposals presented by the University’s 
Commercial Investment Team and to make recommendations on investments 
in companies created by University staff and students, as well as license deals 
and other commercial joint ventures; 
(b) To review commercial investment proposals presented by the University’s 
Commercial Investment Team and to make recommendations on investment 
in companies with a strategic relationship with the University; 
(c) To undertake an annual review of the University portfolio of shareholdings 
and make portfolio management recommendations; 
(d) To undertake a quarterly review of the University’s deal-flow pipeline of 
potential commercial investments (staff & students) and make 
recommendations to the University’s Commercial Investment Team; 
(e) To undertake an annual review of the University’s management of 
commercial investment  capital & fund management, licence deals, joint 
ventures and other venturing arrangements and make recommendations; 
(f) To oversee the management of the Strathclyde Entrepreneur’s Fund; 
(g) To participate in an annual strategy session on the University 
commercial investment approach to review commercial investment 
operations and performance and its contributions to relevant University 
initiatives; 
(h) To provide advice and support on a case by case basis direct to 
University portfolio companies; 
(i) To support University commercial investment activities and related initiatives 
through attendance at University and University-related events; 
(j) To promote the University commercial investment activities and related initiatives 
to relevant interested parties, including, investors, advisors, Government 
Ministers and public policymakers; 
(k) To report to Court on the activities of the Enterprise and Investment 
Committee on a regular basis, including the production of an annual report

--- PAGE 10 ---

10 
 
 
 
 
Composition 
1.2.24 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) A lay member of Court (in the Chair) 
(b) The Chief Commercial Officer ex officio 
(c) The Principal ex officio 
(d) The Chief Financial Officer ex officio 
(e) The Treasurer ex officio 
(f) At least one other member of Court 
(g) Such other members that the Committee may wish to co-opt because of 
their expertise, either members of Court or individuals external to the 
University. 
 
Quorum 
1.2.25 At all meetings of the Committee, a presence of at least two ex officio members, one 
other lay member of Court and 2 co-opted members shall constitute a quorum for the 
transaction of business. 
 
Period of Office 
1.2.26 Members of the Enterprise and Investment Committee, other than ex officio members 
and lay members of Court, shall be appointed for an initial period of up to three years 
from the 1 August following their date of appointment and shall normally be eligible for 
re-appointment twice. 
 
1.3 Main Strategic and Compliance Committees 
 
Period of Office 
1.3.1 Members of committees, other than ex officio members and student members 
nominated by the Council of the Students’ Association, shall normally be appointed for 
a period of three years from the 1 August following their date of appointment and shall 
normally be eligible for re-appointment for only one further consecutive period of three 
years. 
 
Staff Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.3.2 The Staff Committee is responsible for the strategic oversight of strategy and policy in 
relation to staffing matters as well as monitoring compliance with all relevant legislation 
and providing assurance to Court on such matters. 
 
In particular the Committee is responsible for 
(a) the University staffing strategy and ensuring that it is consistent with the overall 
University strategy, and for  proposing this to the Executive Team to ensure 
consistency with the wider strategic investment framework; 
(b) the scrutiny of policies and procedures to ensure that the University continues 
to attract, reward and retain the calibre of staff it requires to achieve its aims as 
set out in the Strategic Plan; 
(c) taking account of the wider external environment to ensure that the terms and 
conditions of employment for all staff remain appropriate and sustainable, and 
for reaching agreement on these following consultation with the Campus 
Unions; 
(d) staff development and performance management systems and monitoring the 
effectiveness of these; 
(e) ensuring compliance with any relevant legislative or professional requirements 
relating to the employment of staff; 
(f) ensuring that the staffing profile is such that it will ensure delivery of the

--- PAGE 11 ---

11 
 
 
 
 
University’s aims as set out in its strategic plan; 
(g) regularly reviewing the staffing strategy to ensure that it remains relevant and 
sustainable. 
(h) the provision of input to staffing decisions, including that necessitated by the 
University's appointment, discipline, grievance and annual review procedures, 
as set out in the University Charter, Statutes and Ordinances. 
Composition 
(a) Vice-Principal/Associate Principal ex officio Convener 
(b) Principal ex officio 
(c) Deputy Convener of Court (Staff) ex officio 
(d) One further lay member of Court 
(e) Two Senior members of staff with staff management experience appointed by 
Senate 
(f) Chief Financial Officer  
(g) Chief People Officer  
(h) And such other members as the Committee may wish to co-opt because of 
their expertise. 
 
Any matter relating directly to the pay and conditions of members of Staff Committee  
will be considered by the Remuneration Committee. Any matter which may represent a 
less direct conflict of interest for a member of Staff Committee will be declared by that 
member, so allowing Staff Committee to consider whether the Remuneration 
Committee should consider the matter or whether it should be considered by St aff 
Committee in the absence of that member. 
 
Estates Strategy Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.1.2 The Estates Committee is responsible for strategic oversight of the University estate 
development and ensuring that it is alignedwith the overall University strategy, on behalf 
of  Court and reporting to the Executive Team, the remit of the Estates  Strategy 
Committee will be as follows: 
1.1.3  Strategic Direction 
a) To review and approve the Estates Strategy as developed by the Estates 
Directorate in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer and Chair of ESC. To 
monitor progress and implementation of the University estate strategy, and 
campus maintenance and development plan, by reviewing progress on targets 
and goals, revising the strategy and campus maintenance and development plan 
as required. 
b) To align investment and ensure compliance with University strategic, statutory 
and climate change commitments coupled with the responsibilities and 
obligations to manage the Estate efficiently and develop it to enable the 
University to deliver its strategic objectives. 
c) To focus on the return on the University’s investment in its estate. All campuses 
must be vibrant and well utilised to facilitate innovation and collaboration, 
maximisation of strategic return, and ensure delivery of an outstanding student 
and staff experience. 
d) An overarching priority is to keep under review the development, condition, 
aesthetic, and performance of the entire University built environment and landed 
Estate, including the asset management thereof, capital projects, and energy 
and environmental issues relating to the Estate.  
e) To consider and recommend to University Court the prioritisation of Capital 
Projects in line with University strategy, business requirements and climate 
change targets.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12 
 
 
 
 
f) To consider and approve or reject Business Cases for each major Capital 
project, acquisition and disposal, leases or Estates related activity aligned to the 
University and Estates Strategy and recommend to Court as appropriate. 
g) To keep under review the adequacy of the University estate and infrastructure 
and to consider proposals relating to the operation, maintenance and 
development, and opportunities to dispose of or acquire, land or property. 
1.1.4 Financial Governance 
a) To review and Approve the Capital Investment plan on a bi-annual basis. 
b) To approve financial commitments for estates related capital expenditure, 
including capital and maintenance projects, net zero and sustainability activities, 
acquisitions, disposals and leases of land and property in accordance with the 
levels set out in the approved Delegated Authority Schedule. 
c) Ensure alignment of proposals with Campus Digital Strategy and other related 
University policies. Review and receive annual reports on the condition of the 
estate including required investment. To consider estates management 
implications associated with changing legislation, local government planning and 
governance requirements. 
1.1.5 Reporting 
To receive update reports on capital projects over £1M. 
 
1.1.6 Policy and Advice 
a) To receive, review and approve Estates related proposals/policies and make 
recommendations to the Executive Team, including but not limited to:  
1) Asset Management including space Strategy & Agile Working  
2) Third Party / Industry Engagement 
3) Maintenance and Statutory Legislative Compliance 
4) Sustainability and Net Zero 
b) To inform key risks in relation to the University estate and infrastructure and to 
review the Strategic Risk Register in respect of these risks 
 
Composition 
1.1.7 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) The Principal ex officio 
(b) Vice Principal (Convener) ex officio 
(c) The University Secretary ex officio 
(d) The Deputy Convener of Court (Estates) ex officio (Court Member) 
(e) The Treasurer ex officio (Court Member) 
(f) The Chief Financial Officer ex officio 
(g) The Chief Commercial Officer ex officio 
(h) One representative of Court 
(i) Two representatives of Senate 
(j) A student nominated by the Executive Students’ Association 
 
In attendance: 
a) Director of Information Services (or delegate) 
b) Director of Communications & Marketing (or delegate) 
c) Assistant Director, Asset Management 
d) Assistant Director, Capital Projects 
e) Assistant Director, Estates Development & Operations 
f) Executive Lead, Sustainability & Environmental Management

--- PAGE 13 ---

13 
 
 
 
 
 
And any such Members as the Committee may wish to co-opt because of their 
expertise.  
 
Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.1.8 The Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC) is responsible for 
oversight of strategy and policy, and monitoring of their implementation, to ensure 
efficacy and performance enhancement in research, knowledge exchange, and 
innovation activity across  the University, as aligned with delivery of the University’s 
Strategic Plan and the targets therein. 
RKEC is responsible for: 
 
(a) strategy and policy for research, knowledge exchange, and innovation activity, 
and for proposing this to the Executive Team in alignment with the delivery of 
the University’s Strategic Plan; 
(b) monitoring the implementation of the University Strategy, tracking key 
university targets for R&KE, and considering a broader range of indicators of 
successful R&KE activity, including international activity, development of our 
research community, our ente rprise and innovation activity, and our broader 
reputation; 
(c) stimulating the creation of strategic relationships for the institution, nationally 
and internationally, with appropriate academic, policy, and industrial 
organisations;
 
(d) ensuring that guidance and codes of practice for staff and students within the 
areas of R&KE meet the University’s needs, follow best practice, and are 
aligned to guidance of government, research councils, and other key 
stakeholders; 
(e) ensuring the University complies with concordats and agreements entered into 
with regards to research and knowledge exchange; 
(f) formally overseeing the policy for the formation of a spin- out company, and 
more broadly the policy for commercialisation of the University’s intellectual 
property; and 
(g) developing and implementing strategic projects in support of research and 
knowledge exchange. 
 
1.1.9 Meetings 
RKEC meets 4 times per year with meetings aligned to Senate to ensure the timely 
exchange of information to support effective decision making 
 
1.1.10 Membership (ex officio) 
a) Associate Principal Research and Knowledge Exchange (Convener) 
b) Deputy Associate Principals Research and Knowledge Exchange  
c) Chief Commercial Officer  
d) The Principal  
e) Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange Services (RKES)  
f) Assistant Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange Services  
g) Head of Research Policy and Information  
h) Director of Industry and Innovation Engagement (IIE)  
i) Director of Strathclyde Doctoral School (SDS)  
j) PhD Student Representative 
k) Research Staff Representative

--- PAGE 14 ---

14 
 
 
 
 
l) Vice Deans Research and Knowledge Exchange  
m) Organisational and Staff Development Unit (OSDU) Manager  
 
1.1.11 Co-Opted 
a) Academic Development Lead (Research), OSDU 
b) Head of TIC Zone Development, IIE 
 
Education Strategy Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.1.12 Education Strategy Committee is responsible for Education to the University Senate, 
Court and the Executive Team. The Education Strategy Committee, established by 
the delegation of Senate, is strategic in outlook, providing a forum to facilitate and 
encourage the development of academic strategy and discuss and promote 
academic developments, whether internally driven or externally.  It has the primary 
responsibility and accountability for Education to the University Senate, Court and 
the Executive Team. 
 
In particular the Committee is responsible for 
(a) Reviewing and updating the Education Strategy. 
(b) Setting priorities for deliverables within Education Strategy for the year. 
(c) Reviewing and responding appropriately to external initiatives and 
developments. 
(d) Overall responsibility for delivery of the strategy through the other committees 
and groups. 
(e) Development and delivery of the Learning Enhancement Framework. 
(f) Approval and endorsement of education policies. 
 
Composition 
1.1.13 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) Vice Principal (Convener) 
(b) Two Deputy Associate Principals Learning and Teaching ex officio 
(c) Four Vice-Deans (Academic) ex officio 
(d) One member of the Senate appointed by the Senate 
(e) President Students’ Association 
(f) Vice President Education, Students’ Association 
(g) Director of Student Experience 
(h) Director of Education Enhancement 
 
Information Strategy Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.1.14 Reporting to the Executive Team, the Information Strategy Committee is responsible 
for the overall strategic digital direction of the University, overseeing the development, 
implementation and delivery of the Digital Strategy, ensuring alignment to the 
University’s Strategic Plan and the targets therein. 
 
The Committee is responsible for: 
 
(a) Reviewing, updating and monitoring the implementation of the Digital Strategy.  
(b) The strategic oversight and prioritisation of digital initiatives, and proposing these 
to the Executive Team for approval where necessary.  
(c) The strategic oversight of the deployment of digital resources across the 
University to ensure opportunities to improve both strategic delivery and 
operational effectiveness and increase value for money of digital service 
provision are harnessed to the fullest potential.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15 
 
 
 
 
(d) Developing and maintaining a robust governance framework to support the 
successful implementation of the Digital Strategy.  
(e) Monitoring the return on investment and benefits realisation of digital initiatives.  
(f) Ensuring compliance with any legislative or professional requirements relating to 
digital resources and their use.  
(g) Approval and endorsement of digital policies.  
(h) Engaging with sector-wide initiatives and benchmarking the University’s strategy, 
policies, and practices nationally and internationally.  
The Committee will establish such sub- committees as deemed necessary by the 
Convener and Committee. 
 
Composition 
1.1.15 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) Chief Commercial Officer (Convener) 
(b) The Chief Financial Officer 
(c) University Compliance Officer 
(d) Director of Information Services 
(e) Convener of Sub-Committee(s) 
(f) Associate Principal & Executive Dean of each Faculty 
(g) Director of Continuous Improvement 
(h) Director of Strategic Planning 
(i) Deputy Director Information Services & Head of IT Services 
(j) Head of Programme Management Office 
(k) Representation from the University of Strathclyde’s Students’ Association 
(l) Additional expertise co-opted by the Convener as required 
 
Quality Assurance Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.1.16 The Quality Assurance Committee has responsibility for the operational delivery of the 
education strategy and reports to the Education Strategy Committee (ESC) on progress 
within key prioritised areas  with internal and external reporting to, for example, the 
Scottish Funding Council and the Quality Assurance Agency, Scotland (QAA). 
 
In particular the Committee is responsible for: 
(a) Recommend academic policies for approval, implementation, monitoring and 
evaluation. 
(b) Oversight of updates to the University’s Regulatory Framework. 
(c) Quinquennial Reviews. 
(d) Faculty Annual Reports: Quality Assurance and Enhancement. 
(e) External reporting e.g. to the QAA and SFC. 
(f) Examination monitoring. 
(g) Progression and awards. 
(h) Receive and review reports from QAC Sub-groups. 
(i) External Examiners’ Reports. 
(j) Partnerships, joint awards, etc., with other institutions, UK and overseas 
(k) Monitoring of student appeals and discipline. and effectiveness of processes. 
(l) Ratify decisions made by the Boards of Study in relation to the creation and 
amendment of student prizes. 
(m) Recommend new and amended scholarships for approval. 
(n) Approve Moratorium Extension requests. 
(o) Oversight of the University’s partnership with International Study Centre.  
(p) National Student Survey (NSS) and other student-experience surveys. 
 
Composition

--- PAGE 16 ---

16 
 
 
 
 
1.1.1 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) Deputy Associate Principal Quality Assurance and Student Experience 
(Convener) 
(b) Convener of Learning Enhancement Committee (LEC) 
(c) Vice-Deans (Academic) 
(d) Representative of Senate 
(e) Two students appointed by the Students’ Association 
(f) Faculty Managers (or designated representatives) 
(g) Two or Three Professional Services Managers/representatives 
 
1.1.2 Meetings  
The Committee will meet five times per annum, in addition to joint meetings with the 
Learning Enhancement Committee and the Collaborative Provision Agreements (CPA) 
Sub-group. 
 
 
1.2 Faculties, Boards of Study and Departments 
 
Faculties, Boards of Study and Departments 
1.2.1 Boards of Study for each of the Faculties listed in Ordinance 2.2 are constituted in 
terms of Ordinance 2.2.4 and Regulation 1.7.  Departments are established by the 
Court in accordance with the provisions of Statute 2.1.2 and allocated to Faculties by 
the Senate in accordance with the provisions of Ordinance 2.2.  Each Department is 
allotted a reference code which is used as the first two characters of the class codes 
published in course regulations to define the Department offering the class. The codes 
allocated are also published as part of course regulations. 
 
1.3 Committees of the Senate 
 
Senate Appeals Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.3.1 To make decisions on behalf of Senate on appeals from students against decisions of 
Boards of Study and Boards and Committees of Examiners. 
 
1.3.2 To keep under review and make recommendations to Senate on all matters relating to 
appeals from students at Board of Study and Senate levels. 
 
Composition 
1.3.3 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) A Senior Officer or Associate Deputy Principal (Convener) 
(b) Two members drawn from a panel composed of academic staff appointed by 
Senate with a minimum of two members drawn from the Senate membership 
of each Faculty, to exclude any member of the Panel who has been a party to 
consideration of the appeal at a lower level. 
 
 
Senate Discipline Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.3.4 To consider and make recommendations to Senate on matters of policy relating to 
student discipline. 
1.3.5 To consider individual disciplinary cases in accordance with the provisions of the 
Regulations for Student Discipline. 
 
Composition 
The Committee will be composed of:

--- PAGE 17 ---

17 
 
 
 
 
(a) A Senior Officer or Associate Deputy Principal (other than the Vice- Principal) 
who shall be Convener except that, in the absence of a Senior Officer, one of 
the Senate members identified in (b) below shall be elected Convener for that 
meeting; 
(b) Two members from a panel composed of academic staff appointed by the 
Senate with a minimum of three members drawn from the Senate membership 
of each Faculty. The Senate representatives shall hold office for a period of 
three years from the first day of August following the date of their appointment. 
They shall, however, cease to be members of the Committee on ceasing to 
hold the appointment by virtue of which they became members. Members shall 
be eligible for re-appointment; and 
(c)  Two student members, who may be drawn from Senate membership (including 
members of the Council of the Students’ Association), or from a pool of students 
appointed by the Vice-Principal (or nominee) via a formal process. 
 
Senate Discipline Appeals Board 
Terms of Reference 
1.3.6 To consider appeals against decisions of the Senate Discipline Committee regarding 
disciplinary offences of a major or serious nature 
 
Composition 
1.3.7 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) The Vice-Principal, or nominee, who shall be Convener; 
(b) Two members from a panel composed of academic staff appointed by the 
Senate with a minimum of three members drawn from the Senate membership 
of each Faculty.  The Senate representatives shall hold office for a period of 
three years from the first day of August following the date of their appointment. 
They shall, however, cease to be members of the committee on ceasing to hold 
the appointment by virtue of which they became members. Members shall be 
eligible for re-appointment; and 
(c) Two student members, who may be drawn from Senate membership (including 
members of the Council of the Students’ Association), or from a pool of students 
appointed by the Vice-Principal (or nominee) via a formal process. 
 
Higher Doctorates Committee 
Terms of Reference 
1.3.8 To undertake an initial internal assessment of the application against the criteria for 
award, as outlined within s20.5 of the University’s Course Regulations for Graduate 
and Postgraduate Awards and Degrees, following notification by the Associate 
Principal & Executive Dean of the relevant Faculty Office. 
1.3.9 To nominate the Examiners for all candidates for Higher Doctorate degrees, if satisfied 
that the application should proceed to formal external examination. 
1.3.10 To receive and consider the Examiners’ Reports and to make recommendations on 
these to Senate. 
1.3.11 If the application is not deemed to be of sufficient merit to proceed to formal 
examination, to notify the applicant. 
Composition 
1.3.12 The Committee will be composed of: 
(a) Principal (ex officio) 
(b) Vice Principal (ex officio) (Convener) 
(c) The Associate Principal & Executive Dean of the appropriate Faculty* 
(d) Two senior members of the academic staff selected by the Vice Principal after 
consultation with the Associate Principal & Executive Dean**

--- PAGE 18 ---

18 
 
 
 
 
*Where the Associate Principal & Executive Dean is a candidate for a higher doctorate 
the Vice Principal should select an officer of equivalent rank from the Faculty which is 
nearest to the field of study of the submission under examination. 
**Any member of academic staff recommending a candidate for a Higher Doctorate is 
precluded from membership. 
 
1.3.13 The Higher Doctorate Committee reports through the Senate Business Committee to 
Senate. 
 
Criminal Convictions Panel 
Terms of Reference 
1.3.14 To consider individual cases where students have declared, or are found, to be 
undergoing criminal proceedings for a relevant charge, or hold a relevant unspent 
criminal conviction, and to make decisions on registration/continued registration of 
individual students at the University. 
 
1.3.15 The Panel will also act as an appeals panel for the process, with alternate membership. 
 
Composition 
1.3.16 The Panel will be composed of: 
 
(a) The Director of Student Experience (or nominee) who acts as Panel 
Convener; 
(b) A representative from the Faculty within which the Student is registered or to 
be registered; 
(c) A member of the Criminal Convictions Panel from Senate membership. The 
Senate representatives shall hold office for a period of three years from the 
first day of August following the date of their appointment. They shall, 
however, cease to be members of the Committee on ceasing to hold the 
appointment by virtue of which they became members. Members shall be 
eligible for re- appointment; 
(d) The University’s PVG Lead Signatory, if the programme of study requires a 
criminal record disclosure check. 
 
1.4 Regulations for Committees of the Senate 
 
1.4.1 The terms of reference, composition and membership of each committee shall be 
reviewed by the Senate as appropriate. 
 
Period of Office 
1.4.2 Members of committees of the Senate other than ex officio members and student 
members nominated by the Council of the Students’ Association shall normally be 
appointed for a period of three years from 1 August following the date of their 
appointment and shall be eligible for re- appointment for only one further consecutive 
period of three years. 
1.4.3 Notwithstanding the above and in order to effect rotation of membership the initial 
period of service of one-third of the members of a committee other than the ex officio 
members and student members nominated by the Council of the Students' Association 
shall be one year and the initial period of service of a further third of the members of a 
committee other than ex officio and student members shall be two years. 
1.4.4 Student members of committees of the Senate shall be nominated by the Council of 
the Students’ Association in October of each year for the whole of that academic year, 
and shall be eligible for re-nomination; but no student member may serve for a period 
longer than that to which they would have been entitled had they been a member of

--- PAGE 19 ---

19 
 
 
 
 
staff. 
1.4.5 Members of committees of the Senate whether they are members ex officio or by 
nomination shall cease to be members when they cease to hold the office or to be 
qualified for the nomination in respect of which they have been appointed. 
 
Vacancies and Resignations 
1.4.6 In the event of a vacancy in the membership of a Senate committee the committee 
may fill the vacancy by special co-option. Members so co-opted shall hold office until 
the next annual appointment of members by the Senate and shall be eligible for 
appointment on that occasion. 
1.4.7 At the annual review of membership a vacancy which has arisen during the previous 
year shall be filled by the appointment of a new member for a period equivalent in 
duration to the unexpired period of service of the member whose demission has 
caused the vacancy. 
1.4.8 A member, other than an ex officio member, of a Senate committee may resign in 
writing addressed to the Committee Manager. 
 
Co-opted Members 
1.4.9 A committee of the Senate shall be permitted to nominate to its membership a number 
of co-opted members which shall not exceed one third of the total membership of the 
committee. Members so co-opted shall hold office until the next annual appointment 
of members by the Senate and shall be eligible either for appointment as members or 
for re-appointment as co-opted members on that occasion. 
 
Convener 
1.4.10 Unless a convener has been designated by the Senate a committee shall elect a 
convener from among the members of the committee. 
1.4.11 In the absence of a convener ex officio or by nomination, a committee, provided there 
is a quorum, shall elect a convener for the meeting. 
 
Procedure 
1.4.12 When a vote is taken the matter in question shall be determined by a simple majority 
of the members present and voting. The convener shall have both a deliberative and 
a casting vote. 
1.4.13 Subject to the authority of these regulations and of the Senate, committees shall have 
the power to determine the procedure to be followed at meetings. A committee of the 
Senate may formally give to its convener the power to make decisions on its behalf 
between meetings. Such decisions to be homologated at the next formal meeting of 
the committee. 
 
Quorum 
1.4.14 The Senate Discipline Committee and Senate Discipline Appeals Board will be quorate 
when all five members (including the Convener) are present. For other committees of 
the Senate, there shall be a quorum when not less than half of the members of the 
committee are present. 
 
1.5 Constitution of Boards of Study 
 
Membership 
A Board shall normally consist of the following persons (or such other persons as shall 
from time to time be carrying out the functions of the persons named below): 
 
Ex officio members 
1.5.1 The following members of the academic staff of the Faculty: 
(a) The Executive Dean

--- PAGE 20 ---

20 
 
 
 
 
(b) the Vice-Dean(s) 
(c) the Associate Dean(s) 
(d) the Heads of Departments 
 
Elected members 
1.5.2 Such numbers of the academic (including Teaching, Research and Knowledge 
Exchange) staff of the Faculty, as is necessary to ensure that the number of elected 
members exceeds the number of ex -officio members and that each Department has 
appropriate representation. 
 
Co-opted members 
1.5.3 A number of persons who may be co-opted by the Board not exceeding one-quarter of 
the number of members holding office under Regulations 1.7.1 and 1.7.2. 
 
Attendees 
1.5.4 The Board of Study may invite to attend some or all meetings of the Board such 
persons as are considered to have an interest in matters to be discussed by the Board, 
including but not confined to, representatives from the Undergraduate and 
Postgraduate students of the Faculty. 
 
Elections and Periods of Office 
1.5.5 The Executive Dean shall hold office in accordance with published policies and 
procedures, pursuant to the Ordinances. 
 
1.5.6 The Vice-Dean(s) and Associate Dean(s) shall hold office in accordance with published 
policies and procedures, pursuant to the Ordinances. 
 
1.5.7 The elected members of each Board shall be elected by those members of the 
academic staff (including Teaching, Research and Knowledge Exchange) of the 
Faculty in such a manner as may be decided the Faculty concerned.  They shall hold 
office for a period of three years commencing on the first day of August in the year in 
which they are elected. 
 
1.5.8 Elected members who are about to retire shall be eligible for re -election but shall not 
hold office for more than two consecutive periods of three years except by permission 
of the Board concerned. 
 
1.5.9 The co-opted members of the Board shall hold office for one year and shall be eligible 
for re-appointment. 
 
Clerk to a Board 
1.7.11 A member of the administrative staff of the Faculty shall act as Clerk to the Board and 
shall be responsible for keeping minutes and preparing reports to the Senate of the 
business of the Board and for carrying out the instructions of the Board. 
 
Powers and Functions 
1.7.12 Subject always to the provisions of the Charter and Statutes a Board shall have the 
following powers and functions: 
 
(a) To make recommendations to the Senate: 
i. on all matters relating to the Faculty concerned and on matters 
referred to it by the Senate; 
ii. for the establishment of Boards of Examiners and the appointment of 
examiners; 
iii. on Ordinances and Regulations dealing with any matter relating to the

--- PAGE 21 ---

21 
 
 
 
 
Faculty; 
iv. for the award of degrees (other than honorary degrees), diplomas, 
certificates and other awards; 
v. concerning the advancement and extension of the work of the 
Faculty. 
(b) To administer and supervise: 
i. the admission of students; 
ii. the progress of students. 
(c) To discuss, when appropriate in consultation with other Boards of Study, 
matters of interest to the Board. 
(d) To review, amend, refer back, control or disallow any act of any committee of 
the Board and to give directions to any committee of the Board. 
 
1.7.13 to 1.7.20 (Numbers not used) 
 
Meetings and Procedure 
Meetings 
1.7.21 There shall normally be four ordinary meetings of each Board per session. 
1.7.22 If no business has been notified to the Clerk of a Board at least ten days before the 
due date of an ordinary meeting it shall be competent for the Executive Dean to cancel 
the ordinary meeting by written notice to all members of the Board at least five working 
days before the date of the meeting. 
1.7.23 Special meetings of a Board shall be convened at the request of the Executive Dean 
or at the request of not less than one-third of the members of the Board. 
 
Quorum 
1.7.24 One-third of the members of a Board shall constitute a quorum.  In the absence of a 
quorum no business shall be transacted other than the adjournment of the meeting. At 
the adjourned meeting the business for which the original meeting was convened may 
be completed in the absence of a quorum.  The manner of summoning an adjourned 
meeting of a Board and the period of notice to be given are set out in Regulation 1.11.1. 
 
Standing Orders 
1.7.25 A Board may make Standing Orders for the conduct of its business and may from time 
to time amend, add to or repeal such Standing Orders. 
 
Voting 
1.7.26 Members of a Board shall have the right to vote at meetings of the Board. 
 
1.7.27 At the request of any three members of a Board a vote shall be taken by secret ballot. 
 
Sub-Boards and Committees 
1.7.28 A Board may establish sub- boards and committees of its members and may appoint 
as members of such sub-boards and committees persons who are not members of the 
Board. A Board may delegate to a sub-board or committee, by specific reference, any 
of the powers or functions which the Board itself is competent to perform. 
 
1.7.29 Sub-Boards and Committees shall be empowered to: 
(a) consider matters referred by the Board; 
(b) consult with other bodies concerning matters referred by the Board; 
(c) make recommendations and reports to the Board; 
(d) make recommendations to Senate on specific matters delegated to it by the 
Board. 
 
Amendment of Constitution

--- PAGE 22 ---

22 
 
 
 
 
1.7.30 Any Board may from time to time recommend to the Senate that the Constitution be 
amended, added to or repealed.  Such recommendation must be supported by a 
majority of two -thirds of those present and voting at a special meeting of the Board 
called for the purpose. 
 
1.6 Constitution of Joint Boards of Study 
 
Status 
1.6.1 A Joint Board of Study is established by the Senate jointly from the Faculties where it 
is deemed by the Senate to be a necessary and appropriate body to discuss matters 
relating to a designated degree course (hereinafter referred to as 'the degree course') 
and any matter referred to it by the Senate and to convey its views thereon to the 
Senate. 
 
Membership 
A Joint Board shall consist of the following persons, namely: 
 
Convener 
1.6.2 A Convener appointed by the Senate on the recommendation of the Joint Board from 
the members of the academic staff of the Faculties concerned. 
 
Board of Study Members 
1.6.3 One or two members of the Boards of Study of the Faculties concerned with the degree 
course who shall be elected members of the relevant Board of Study. The number of 
representatives to be reviewed by the Senate on the recommendation of the Joint 
Board and the members to be nominated by the relevant Board of Study. 
 
Subject Department Members 
1.6.4 One member of the academic staff of each of the primary subject departments 
concerned with the degree course; such departments to be determined by the Senate 
on the recommendation of the Joint Board and the member to be nominated by the 
relevant Head of Department. 
 
Co-opted Members 
1.6.5 A number of persons who may be co -opted by the Joint Board not exceeding one 
quarter of the number of members holding office under Regulations 1.8.2, 1.8.3 and 
1.8.4. 
 
Attendees 
1.6.6 The Joint Board may invite to attend some or all of the meetings of the Joint Board 
such persons as are considered to have an interest in matters to be discussed by the 
Joint Board, including but not confined to, representatives from the students registered 
on the degree course. 
 
Elections and Periods in Office 
1.6.7 The Convener of a Joint Board shall hold office for the same period and under the 
same conditions as the Executive Dean of a Faculty. 
1.6.8 The Board of Study members shall normally hold office for a period of three years 
commencing on the first day of August in the year in which they are appointed and 
shall be eligible for re-appointment for not more than one further period of three years. 
Such members must be elected members of the relevant Board of Study during the 
first year of their period of office on the Joint Board. 
1.6.9 The subject department members shall hold office for a period of three years 
commencing on the first day of August in the year in which they are appointed and 
shall be eligible for re-appointment.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23 
 
 
 
 
1.6.10 The co- opted members shall hold office for one year and shall be eligible for re - 
appointment. 
 
Powers and Functions 
1.6.11 Subject always to the provisions of the Charter and Statutes a Joint Board shall have 
the following powers and functions. 
 
(a) To make recommendations to the Senate: 
i. on all matters relating to the degree course concerned, on higher degree study 
in fields designated by the Senate, and on matters referred to it by the Senate; 
ii. for the establishment of Boards of Examiners and the appointment of 
examiners; 
iii. on Ordinances and Regulations dealing with any matter relating to the degree 
course or higher degree study as designated under the provisions of (a)i above; 
iv. for the award of degrees (other than honorary degrees), diplomas, certificates 
and other awards; 
v. concerning the advancement and extension of the degree course or higher 
degree study as designated under the provision of (a)i above. 
 
(b) To administer and supervise: 
i. the admission of students; 
ii. the progress of students. 
 
(c) To discuss, when appropriate in consultation with other Boards or Joint Boards of 
Study, matters of interest to the Joint Board. 
(d) To review, amend, refer back, control or disallow any act of any committee of the 
Joint Board and to give directions to any committee of the Joint Board. 
 
Clerk to a Joint Board 
1.6.12 A member of the administrative staff of the Faculties concerned shall act as the Clerk 
to the Joint Board and shall be responsible for keeping minutes and preparing reports 
to the Senate of the business of the Joint Board and for carrying out the instructions of 
the Joint Board. 
 
1.6.13 to 1.8.20 (Numbers not used) 
 
Meetings and Procedure 
Meetings 
1.8.21 There shall normally be four ordinary meetings of each Joint Board per session and 
such other ordinary meetings as the Joint Board may arrange. 
1.8.22 If no business has been notified to the Clerk of a Joint Board at least ten days before 
the due date of an ordinary meeting it shall be competent for the Convener to cancel 
the ordinary meeting by written notice to all members of the Joint Board at least f ive 
working days before the date of the meeting. 
1.8.23 Special meetings of a Joint Board shall be convened at the request of the Convener or 
at the request of not less than one-third of the members of the Joint Board.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24 
 
 
 
 
Quorum 
1.8.24 One-third of the members of a Joint  Board shall constitute a quorum. In the absence 
of a quorum no business shall be transacted other than the adjournment of the 
meeting. At the adjourned meeting the business for which the original meeting was 
convened may be completed in the absence of a quorum. The manner of summoning 
an adjourned meeting of a Joint Board and the period of notice to be given are set out 
in Regulation 1.11.1. 
 
Standing Orders 
1.8.25 A Joint Board may make Standing Orders for the conduct of its business and may from 
time to time amend, add to or repeal such Standing Orders. 
 
Voting 
1.8.26 Members of a Joint Board shall have the right to vote at meetings of the Joint Board. 
1.8.27 At the request of any three members of a Joint Board a vote shall be taken by secret 
ballot. 
 
Sub-Boards and Committees 
1.8.28 A Joint Board may establish sub-boards or committees of its members and may appoint 
as members of such sub-boards or committees persons who are not members of the 
Joint Board. A Joint Board may delegate to a sub-board or committee by specific 
reference any of the powers or functions which it is itself competent to perform. 
 
1.8.29 Sub-Boards and committees of a Joint Board shall be empowered to: 
a) consider matters referred by the Joint Board; 
b) consult with other bodies concerning matters referred by the Joint Board; 
c) make recommendations and reports to the Joint Board; 
d) make recommendations to Senate on specific matters delegated to it by the Board. 
 
Amendment of Constitution 
1.8.30 Any Joint Board may from time to time recommend to the Senate that the Constitution 
be amended, added to or repealed.  Any such recommendation should refer, where 
appropriate, to the corresponding provision in the Constitution of Boards of Study. Such 
recommendation must be supported by a majority of two-thirds of those present and 
voting at a special meeting of the Joint Board called for the purpose. 
 
1.7 (Number not used) 
 
1.8 Boards of Examiners for First Degree 
 
1.8.1 The University shall make provision for Boards of Examiner s, in accordance with 
Ordinance 3.4, comprising the Internal Examiners and External Examiners for each of 
the subjects or groups of subjects included in the scope of the examinations for the 
degree of bachelor. 
1.8.2 The constitution of Boards of Examiners and the procedure detailing their operation 
will be approved by the Quality Assurance Committee and published by the University. 
 
1.9 Regulations for Summoning Adjourned Meetings 
 
1.9.1 If within half -an-hour from the time appointed for a meeting other than an adjourned 
meeting of the [Court/Senate/Board of Study/Joint Board of Study] of the University a 
Quorum as prescribed in the Statutes is not present, the Convener, or in the 
Convener's absence the University Secretary, or a member of the administrative staff 
nominated by the University Secretary, shall adjourn the meeting to the same day in

--- PAGE 25 ---

25 
 
 
 
 
the next week, at the same time and place, or to such other day and at such other time 
and place as the members who are present may determine. 
1.10 Use of the Seal 
 
1.10.1 The Seal of the University shall be of the form and design appended to these 
Regulations. 
1.10.2 The Seal shall normally be kept in the custody of the University Secretary or other 
Officer of the University authorised by the Court for that purpose. 
1.10.3 Except as provided in this Regulation the Seal shall be used only with the authority of 
the Court or that of a committee or officer duly authorised by the Court to use it. 
1.10.4 The Seal may be used with the authority of the Senate for the purpose of executing 
degrees, diplomas and other academic awards. 
1.10.5 The Seal may be used with the authority of the Convener of Court for any business of 
the Court or of the Treasurer or the Deputy Convener of Court (Estates and Buildings) 
for any financial or property business respectively of the Court. 
1.10.6 Every instrument to which the Seal is affixed shall be signed by a member of the Court 
(except that in the case of degrees, diplomas and academic awards the signatory shall 
be the Principal or their deputy) and shall be countersigned by the University Secretary, 
Chief Commercial Officer or the Chief Financial Officer; or, where the Seal is used with 
the authority of the Senate, the Vice-Principal. 
1.10.7 When documents have been sealed, signed and countersigned as aforesaid they shall 
be held to be validly executed by the University. 
1.10.8 A record of all occasions on which the Seal is used as aforesaid shall be kept by the 
University Secretary for report to the Court. 
 
1.11 Heads of Departments 
 
NB: In addition to Departments, the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences also 
consists of the Strathclyde Institute of Education and the Strathclyde Law School. In  
the following regulations Department should be read as Institute/School when referring 
to the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. 
 
1.11.1 Each Department in the University established under Statute 2.1.2 shall have a Head 
of Department who shall be appointed according to a procedure approved by the Staff 
Committee. 
 
1.11.2 The Head of Department shall be responsible for maintaining and promoting the 
efficiency and good order of the Department, shall be the official correspondent of the 
Department and shall under the Court exercise authority in and bear responsibility for 
the Department as a whole. 
 
1.12 Departmental Committees 
 
1.12.1 Departmental Committees as defined by Ordinance 2.2.2 shall meet regularly and 
normally at least twice, in each of the first two semesters of the academic year. 
One of these meetings shall be the statutory meeting, when all members of the 
Departmental staff shall be invited to attend to be addressed by the Head of 
Department. Any member of the staff of the grouping may make representations to 
this Committee to any matter affecting the Department. 
Additional meetings may be called by the Head of Department on the Head's own 
initiative and shall be called by them on the initiative of whichever is less of eight or of 
half of the academic staff appointed to the Department.

--- PAGE 26 ---

26 
 
 
 
 
1.12.2 The Departmental Committee shall comprise all members of academic staff (as defined 
in Ordinance 1.1.1) at Grade 8 and above and any probationary lecturers in the  
department. The Head of Department shall make arrangements which ensure that all 
other staff in the Department are appropriately represented. 
 
1.12.3 The Head of Department shall normally be present at each meeting of the 
Departmental Committee and, if present, shall normally take the Chair. 
 
1.12.4 The Departmental Committee may discuss and declare an opinion on any matter 
affecting the Department other than the private affairs of individual members of staff 
and may declare that opinion to the Head of Department and to the Board of Study of 
the Faculty in which the Department is situated. 
 
1.12.5 Members of the Departmental Committee may request from the Head of Department 
information relevant to the discussions of the Committee and the Head of Department 
shall with discretion supply such information (which shall not unreasonably be 
withheld), except when it has been made available to the Head of Department on a 
basis of strict confidentiality within the University. 
 
1.12.6 Within those powers of the Head of Department which it is competent to delegate to 
members of the Departmental Committee shall be administrative and managerial tasks 
associated with the Department, including arrangements for the organisation and the 
recording of meetings of the Departmental Committee. 
 
1.13 Groups of Departments 
 
1.13.1 The Court may wish from time to time to authorise the formation of a Group of 
Departments under the co- ordination of a Convener of the Group.  Any published 
procedures governing the process of appointing a Head of Department shall be 
applicable to the appointment of a Convener of a Group of Departments mutatis 
mutandis. 
 
2 REQUIREMENTS FOR ENTRANCE TO UNDERGRADUATE AND 
POSTGRADUATE COURSES 
The University shall ensure that appropriate admissions policies and procedures 
dealing with the requirements for entrance to undergraduate, postgraduate and part - 
time courses are in place. Any such policies and procedures shall be approved by the 
Senate or an appropriate committee, designated by Senate, and published on the 
University website. 
 
3 LIBRARY REGULATIONS 
3.1 General 
 
3.1.1 The University Library comprises 
 
The Andersonian Library 
Such other places as defined by the Information Strategy Committee with the 
approval of the Senate 
3.1.2 Authority is delegated by the Senate to the Information Strategy Committee to develop, 
approve and review, on the advice of the Information Services Director and the 
University Librarian, rules, policy statements and procedures in relation to the effective

--- PAGE 27 ---

27 
 
 
 
 
operation and running of the University Library. Use of the University Library is 
conditional upon the observance of any such rules, policy statements or procedures 
which may include but are not restricted to: 
 
(a) the use of Library materials, within the Library or elsewhere, including the use 
of rare books, manuscripts, archives, other special collections material and 
electronic information resources; 
(b) the use of allocated special study areas; 
(c) the terms on which Library material may be borrowed; 
(d) loan procedures and loan periods; 
(e) lost items of Library material; 
(f) the bringing of personal belongings into Library premises; 
(g) the conduct of users in the Library. 
 
3.1.3 All members of the Library staff are authorised to require compliance with rules, policy 
statements or procedures made pursuant to this Regulation. Failure by a user to 
comply with such a request shall normally be reported to the Librarian or an authorised 
deputy who, subject to the Ordinances, Regulations and associated procedures of the 
University, shall determine the action to be taken. 
 
4 EXAMINATION REGULATIONS 
4.1 General 
 
4.1.1 The University shall have in place appropriate policies and procedures for the 
regulation of all degree examinations. Degree examinations include in particular those 
examinations normally held at the end of each semester, with a resit diet before the 
succeeding academic session, the results of which are considered by formally 
constituted Boards of Examiners. 
4.1.2 These regulations and any subsequent policies or procedures should be read in 
conjunction with the provisions of Ordinance 3.4 Examiners & Examinations. 
4.1.3 All policies and procedures in relation to degree examinations shall be approved by 
Senate and published in an appropriate location. 
 
5 REGULATIONS FOR STUDENT DISCIPLINE 
5.1 General 
 
5.1.1 Pursuant to Ordinance 5.2, every student of the University is required at all times to be 
of good behaviour and to observe all Regulations, procedures and rules affecting them 
which may be applied from time to time by the University or other Institution which they 
attend as part of a University programme of study. 
 
5.1.2 The University shall have in place appropriate and detailed policies and procedures for 
the regulation of student discipline. These will include, but not be limited to: 
 
(a) the classification of disciplinary offences 
(b) the definition of disciplinary offences

--- PAGE 28 ---

28 
 
 
 
 
(c) the jurisdiction of University staff, committee and boards to deal with 
disciplinary matters 
(d) procedures for managing and regulating student discipline 
(e) potential sanctions and penalties 
(f) the reporting and recording of disciplinary proceedings 
(g) services of notices and documents 
 
5.1.3 Such policies and procedures shall be approved by Senate and published on the 
University website. 
 
5.2 to 5.19 (Numbers not used) 
 
5.20 Committees on Fitness to Practice 
 
5.20.1 Where a course of study requires a student to undertake practical training in a 
professional role in relation to patients, children, clients or service users or where the 
qualification provides a direct licence to practice , the University has a duty to ensure 
that the student is fit to practice. A student registered for such a course will be required 
to meet standards of fitness to practice for the course. 
5.20.2 The University shall have in place appropriate policies and procedures for the 
identification of failures to meet standards, investigations of alleged failures and the 
constitution and operation of Committees on Fitness to Practice . Such policies and 
procedures shall be approved by the Senate. 
5.20.3 Students are expected to acquaint themselves with the Code of Professional Conduct 
and Fitness to Practice appropriate to their profession. 
5.20.4 A student who is thought to have failed to meet the standards required may be subject 
to investigation and then be referred to the relevant Committee on Fitness to Practice. 
5.20.5 A student may be subject to disciplinary procedures as well as fitness to practice 
procedures although these shall not run concurrently. 
 
6 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS 
 
6.1 Residence Regulations 
 
6.1.1 The University shall ensure that appropriate guidance, policies and procedures are in 
place for the regulation of student residences. Such information may include but is not 
limited to: 
 
a) residents’ charters 
b) appropriate codes of conduct 
c) occupancy agreements 
d) accommodation handbooks 
e) arrangements for the establishment of Hall Committees 
 
6.1.2 Such guidance, policies and procedures shall be developed, approved and revised, as 
may be necessary from time to time, by the Estates Committee, on the 
recommendation of the Director of Estates Services and shall be made available on 
the website. 
 
6.1.3 Use of or access to University  accommodation is conditional upon the observance of 
any such policies and procedures. Failure to adhere to policies or procedures may also 
lead to disciplinary action under related University processes.

--- PAGE 29 ---

29 
 
 
 
 
6.2 Regulations Governing Non Graduating Students 
 
6.2.1 Persons who are not students of the University registered for a degree, diploma or 
certificate may attend courses and classes either full -time or part-time in accordance 
with the provisions set out below.  Such persons shall be termed ‘non -graduating’ 
students. The provisions shall not apply to students already registered for a degree, 
diploma or certificate who wish to attend any class outside their regular curriculum. 
6.2.2 Non-graduating students wishing to attend an undergraduate or postgraduate course 
full-time or to attend an undergraduate or postgraduate course part -time or to attend 
only individual classes or pursue research on a part -time basis, may do so with the 
permission of the Board of Study concerned.  They may be permitted to sit degree, 
diploma or certificate examinations, and may receive a statement setting out the 
classes they have attended and the results of any examinations they have sat. 
6.2.3 The fees payable by non-graduating students are set out on the relevant course pages 
on the University’s website. 
 
6.3 Regulations Governing Academic Dress 
 
6.3.1 In accordance with Statute 3.3.15, the Senate will, from time to time, approve, on the 
recommendation of the Director of Marketing & Development Services, the academic 
dress to be worn by University officers and by persons receiving awards from the 
University, and the occasions on which it shall be worn. The University will publish 
information regarding academic dress and policies governing its use on the website. 
 
6.4   Regulations Governing Registration for Student Membership of the University 
and General Regulations Affecting Student Membership 
 
Registration for Student Membership 
6.4.1 All students who accept admission to the University shall be registered in each of their 
prescribed periods of study and shall pay fees and such other sums as may be 
prescribed by the Court. 
6.4.2 Registration by the University under the provisions of these Regulations constitutes 
confirmation of admission to or renewal of student membership of the University.  A 
person who has not been so registered shall not be entitled to attend a course of study. 
6.4.3 Students for degrees and diplomas or entering upon non -graduating study in the 
University shall normally be registered immediately before the commencement of each 
academic year in accordance with instructions issued by the University.  Certain 
students may be required to undergo an x-ray examination of the chest as a condition 
of registration. 
6.4.4 Students entering upon a course of study after the commencement of the first 
semester, and any other students not registered during the procedures described in 
Regulation 6.4.3 shall present themselves for registration, in accordance with 
instructions issued by the University. 
6.4.5 At the discretion of the University the following categories of persons may be registered 
without personal attendance subject to payment by them of any prescribed fees: 
Students admitted to courses other than those for degrees and diplomas, part-time 
students and students not in attendance at the University (including students under 
suspension, students undertaking study outwith the University as a required part of 
their course, postgraduate students who have completed their required period of 
residence but have not yet submitted their thesis, and students holding sabbatical 
office in the Students’ Association). 
6.4.6 Every student on accepting admission to the University, and annually when being 
registered under Regulation 6.4.3 or 6.4.4 shall sign a declaration that they will abide 
by the University Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations. 
6.4.7 Any students permitted to pay tuition fees in instalments who fail to do so as agreed,

--- PAGE 30 ---

30 
 
 
 
 
shall have their registration suspended with immediate effect. 
6.4.8 Any student who fails to pay the fees required or any other sums due to the University 
in the academic year in which such fees or other sums become payable may be barred 
from registration for any subsequent academic year until such time as the monies due 
are paid or an arrangement satisfactory to the University is made for the payment 
thereof. 
 
General Regulations 
6.4.9 Students must notify Student Business immediately of any change in their in -term or 
out-of-term addresses.  The University will use these addresses for official 
communications, including examination results, and cannot be held responsible for 
non-delivery where a change of address is not notified. 
6.4.10 The University does not accept liability for any loss or damage howsoever caused to 
effects belonging to students, nor does it accept any liability for accidents to students 
while pursuing any part of their course or during visits or games. 
6.4.11 Students must sit all terminal tests and examinations unless prevented by illness or 
other valid personal circumstances prescribed by procedures, in which case a medical 
certificate or other appropriate evidence must be produced. 
6.4.12 Students who contract an infectious or contagious disease, or who live in a house in 
which such disease occurs must absent themselves from the University and notify the 
University immediately. They must not resume attendance until they have presented 
a medical certificate that it is safe for them to do so. 
6.4.13 The main source of communication within the University is by notices posted on official 
notice boards, the Pegasus system and by e -mail to ‘@uni.strath’ accounts. It is the 
responsibility of every student to keep acquainted with notices and to monitor their 
University email accounts.  No allowance will be made in cases where, by failing to 
read a notice or email, a student becomes liable for disciplinary action.  
6.4.14 Unauthorised persons may not post notices on official University notice boards. 
 
6.5 Statement of Health and Safety Policy 
 
6.5.1 The University is committed to ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health, 
safety and welfare of all its staff and student members and those affected by its 
activities including, visitors, contractors and members of the public who have access 
to the University property. 
6.5.2 The policy stated above will be enacted through the following: 
 
(a) an Occupational Health and Safety Policy, approved by the Court, which 
includes the University’s arrangements and organisation for health and safety: 
(b) Local Safety Rules as are approved by the University Court, and issued to 
departments, for appropriate distribution. 
(c) Departmental Safety Regulations. 
(d) University Safety Services’ Guidance Notes. 
(e) an Occupational Health and Safety Committee to advise the Court on all 
matters relating to safety in the University and to oversee the implementation 
of the University’s Safety Policy 
 
It is the duty of all staff and students to demonstrate high standards with regard to 
health and safety and to abide by all relevant Policies, Rules and Regulations. 
6.6    Access  to University Premises 
 
The University shall have a policy detailing the arrangements for access to University 
premises. The Access to University Premises Policy shall be developed, approved and 
reviewed, as required from time to time, by the Estates Committee, on the

--- PAGE 31 ---

31 
 
 
 
 
recommendation of the Director of Estates Services. The Policy shall be published on 
the website. 
 
6.7 Data Protection 
 
6.7.1 Personal data is information about an identifiable living individual. 
6.7.2 Whenever processing personal data, the University must do so in accordance with 
current data protection legislation and in line with the University’s Data Protection 
policy. The relevant definition of data processing is wide and includes: collecting, 
recording, storing, using, analysing, combining, disclosing and deleting data. 
6.7.3 The University’s Data Protection Policy will be approved by an appropriate committee 
and published on the University’s website. 
 
6.8   Regulations Governing Academic Appeals by Students 
6.8.1 The University shall have in place appropriate and detailed policies and procedures to 
allow students to request a review of a decision by an academic body charged with 
determining student progression and awards. Such policies and procedures shall be 
approved by the Senate and published on the University website. 
 
6.9 Regulations Governing Complaints from Students 
 
6.9.1 The University will adopt a Complaints Handling Procedure which complies with a 
model provided by the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman, as required by the Public 
Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010. The University’s Complaints Handling 
Procedure will be approved by an appropriate committee and published on the 
University website. 
 
6.10 Copyright 
 
General 
6.10.1 The laws on copyright apply to all literary, dramatic, musical or artistic works; to the 
typographical arrangement of published editions; to sound recordings, films, 
broadcasts or cable programmes; and to computer programs and electronic forms of 
material. The legislation which applies at present is the Copyright Designs and Patents 
Act (1988). In order to copy, perform, adapt, translate or issue all or part of any such 
work, it is essential for staff or students to obtain the permission of the holder(s) of the 
copyright, unless those copyright owners are a party, with the University, to an 
agreement with a licensing body empowered by the Act. If such a licence is in place, 
it is essential to abide by its provisions.  Information about Copyright and about the 
University’s licence agreements with the Copyright Licensing Agency and other 
organisations covering print, audio visual and electronic materials shall be made 
available on relevant sections of the University website.  Heads of Departments have 
a responsibility to the University Court to ensure, so far as practicable, that staff (and, 
through them, students) are aware of the implications of the Act and the licence 
agreements. 
 
7 FEES 
7.1 Payment of Fees 
 
7.1.1 Students become liable for the payment of the full annual fees detailed in the following 
sections on or before registration. The University reserves the right, however, to revise 
fees payable at any time without notice. 
7.1.2 At registration students must (i) present satisfactory evidence that they hold a grant or 
award from which the fees will be paid or (ii) pay the fees due. Cheques should be

--- PAGE 32 ---

32 
 
 
 
 
made payable to the University of Strathclyde. 
7.1.3 Students withdrawing from attendance may be entitled to a refund of a proportion of 
the tuition fees paid. 
7.1.4 It should be noted that under Ordinance 3.5.6 no degrees, diplomas or certificates may 
be conferred upon persons unless they have paid the fees prescribed and any other 
sums due to the University. 
7.1.5 It should be noted that under Regulation 6.4, students who fail to pay the fees due may 
have their registration suspended or be barred from registration in a subsequent 
academic year. 
 
7.2 Tuition Fees 
 
7.2.1 Annual fees covering registration, tuition and entrance to examinations, along with 
other relevant fees and subscriptions, are covered on the course pages on the 
University website. 
 
Document last approved: 1 October 2025