--- PAGE 1 ---

CHARTER of the 
University of 
Strathclyde
Version No. Description Author Approval Effective Date 
N/A University Charter N/A Privy Council (12 
February 2020)
12 February 2020
12/02/2020 Version N/A 
The Charter defines the objects, powers, officers and statutory 
bodies of the University. It defines the University as a teaching, 
research and examining body and includes such fundamental 
powers as those of awarding degrees. 
the place of useful learning  
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263

--- PAGE 2 ---

UNIVERSITY CHARTER 
ELIZABETH THE SECOND by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland and of Our other Realms and Territories Queen, Head of the Commonwealth, 
Defender of the Faith: to all to whom these presents shall come, greeting! 
WHEREAS an humble Petition has been presented unto Us by The Royal College of Science and 
Technology, Glasgow, praying that We should constitute and found a University within Our City 
of Glasgow for the advancement of knowledge, the diffusion and extension of arts, sciences and 
learning, the provision of liberal, professional, scientific and technological education and for the 
furtherance of the objects for which the said Royal College of Science and Technology was 
constituted under a scheme  prepared by Our Secretary of State for Scotland and which was 
approved by Order in Council dated the thirtieth day of July in the year of our Lord One thousand 
nine hundred and sixty -two and to grant a Charter with such provisions in that behalf as shall 
seem to Us right and suitable: 
AND WHEREAS We have taken the said Petition into Our Royal Consideration and are minded to 
accede thereto: 
NOW THEREFORE KNOW YE that We by virtue of Our Prerogative Royal and of Our especial 
grace, certain knowledge and mere motion have willed and ordained and by these Presents do 
for Us, Our Heirs and Successors will and ordain as follows: 
The Name of the University 
1. There shall continue to be a body politic and corporate by the name of “The University 
of Strathclyde” (“the U niversity”) which was constituted in 1962 with perpetual 
succession and a Common Seal  and whose current Members are set out in the 
Ordinances of the University. 
The Objects of the University 
2. The objects of the University shall be to advance learning and knowledge by teaching, 
research and knowledge exchange in Science, Engineering and Busine ss as well as 
defined areas of the Social Sciences and Humanities and to provide a high quality 
education and experience so as to inspire students to develop to the full their abilities. 
The Powers of the University 
3. The University shall have all the powers of a natural person to do all lawful acts that are 
conducive or incidental to the attainment of the objects of the University, which includes 
but is not limited to the power to award and revoke degrees and other dis tinctions 
(including without limitation, diplomas, joint degrees, dual degrees, double degrees, 
certificates, fellowships, honorary degrees, honorary fellowships, memberships and 
associateships) in its own name and/or jointly with other education institutions. 
Application of Income

--- PAGE 3 ---

4. The University shall not make any dividend, gift, division, or bonus in money unto or 
between any of its officers or members of Court except by way of prize, reward or 
special grant. 
The Court 
5. There shall be a court of the Univer sity ("the Court"), which shall be the supreme 
governing body of the University and shall be responsible for the exercise of the 
University’s powers. The functions of the Court shall include, without limitation: 
5.1 the custody and use of the Common Seal; 
5.2 the oversight of the management and administration of the revenue, property, staff and 
students of the University; and 
5.3 oversight of the conduct of the affairs of the University. 
Delegation of Functions of the Court 
6. The Court may delegate all or any of its functions provided that the Court shall not 
delegate any of the following: 
6.1 the determination of the character and mission of the University; 
6.2 the responsibility for ensuring the solvency of the University and for safeguarding its 
assets, including the appointment of auditors, the establishment of an audit committee 
and the approval of the University’s annual audited accounts; 
6.3 the making of, alteration, amendment or addition to this Our Charter or the Statutes; 
or 
6.4 the appointment and removal of the Principal and Secretary. 
Officers 
7. The University shall have the following Officers:  
7.1 the Chancellor, who shall be the ceremonial head of the University;  
7.2 the Principal, who shall be the principal academic and administrative officer of the 
University and shall also have the title of Vice-Chancellor;  
7.3 the University Secretary; and 
7.4 the University shall have such other Officers as is provided for by Ordinance.

--- PAGE 4 ---

The Senate 
8. There shall be a Senate of the University which, subject to the provisions of this Our 
Charter and the Statutes and to the general control and approval of the Court, shall be 
responsible for the academic work of the University, in teaching, in res earch and i n 
knowledge exchange, and for the regulation and superintendence of the education and 
discipline of the students of the University. 
The Students Association 
9. There shall be a Students Association of the University, which shall conduct and manage 
its own affairs and funds in accordance with a constitution approved by the Court. No 
amendment to or rescission of that constitution shall be valid unless approved by the 
Court. 
Alumni 
10. The University shall engage with its former students and alumni. The University m ay, 
from time to time, prescribe in the Ordinances the conditions of such engagement. 
Academic Freedom 
11. The University will aim to uphold the academic  freedom of all persons engaged in 
teaching, the provision of learning or research at the University .  Academic freedom is 
taken to be the freedom to hold and express opinions, question and test established 
ideas or received wisdom, develop and advance new ideas or innovative proposals and 
present controversial or unpopular points of view and to do so without being adversely 
affected with regard to appointments held or sought and entitlements and privileges  
enjoyed, provided always that such freedom is exercised lawfully and respects the 
academic freedom of others. 
Equal Treatment 
12. The University shall be committed to the fair and equal treatment of every person and 
shall not discriminate on unjustified, irrelevant or unlawful grounds. 
Staff and Student Engagement 
13. The University shall arrange opportunities for engagement and consultation with staff 
members and students of the University as deemed appropriate. 
Community Engagement 
14. The University shall engage with its broader communities. The University may, from 
time to time, prescribe in the Ordinances the conditions of such engagement.

--- PAGE 5 ---

The Charter, Statutes, Ordinances and Regulations 
15. Following consultation with the Senate, the Court may amend,  add to, or repeal this 
Our Charter by a resolution passed at a Court meeting by a majority of not less than 
three quarters of those present and voting. Such amendment, addition or repeal shall, 
when allowed by Us, Our Heirs or Successors in Council, have effect so that this Our 
Charter shall operate as though it had been originally granted and made as so amended, 
added to or repealed. 
16. There shall be Statutes , Ordinances and Regulations of the University which shall 
contain all such other provisions consistent with this Our Charter as it may be thought 
proper to make for the convenient and effective attainment and execution of the objects 
and purposes of this Our Charter, provided that no provision of the Statutes, Ordinances 
or Regulations shall be repugnant to this Charter. The Statutes may direct that any of 
the matters authorised in this Charter to be prescribed by Statutes shall be prescribed 
by Ordinances or Regulations.  
17. Following consultation with the Senate, the Court may by a simple majority amend, add 
to or repeal the Statutes provided  that no such Statutes shall be either repugnant to 
the provisions of this Our Charter or shall have effect until approved by the Lords of 
Our Most Honourable Privy Council.  In this Our Charter “Statutes” mean the Statutes 
set forth in the Schedule hereto and any Statutes amending, adding to or repealing the 
same. 
18. Following consultation with the Senate, the Court may by a simple majority amend, add 
to or repeal the Ordinances and Regulations  provided that no such Ordinances or 
Regulations shall be repugnant  to the provisions of the  Charter or the Statutes. The 
Court may delegate the power to make Regulations to any committee of the University. 
Interpretation 
19. Our Royal Will and Pleasure is that this Our Charter shall ever be construed 
benevolently, and in every case most favourably to the University and the promotion of 
the objects of this Our Charter.  
IN WITNESS whereof We have ordered the Seal appointed by the treaty of Union to be kept and 
used in Scotland in place of the Great Seal of Scotland to be appended hereto. 
 
 
Approved by Privy Council 12 February 2020