--- PAGE 1 ---

ANNEX 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VOLUNTARY SUSPENSION 
GUIDELINES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  1/05/2019 Version 1.2   
 
 
the place of useful learning 
The University of Strathclyde is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, number SC015263 
Version 
No. 
Description Author Approval Effective 
Date 
1.0 
 
 
 
1.1 
 
 
 
1.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Voluntary 
Suspension 
Guidelines 
 
Voluntary 
Suspension 
Guidelines 
 
Voluntary 
Suspension 
Guidelines 
 
 
 
QAC 
 
 
 
Education 
Enhancement 
 
 
Education 
Enhancement 
Senate 
(April 
2014) 
1 May 2014 
 
 
 
7 Nov 2016 
 
 
 
1 May 2019

--- PAGE 2 ---

1 What is voluntary suspension? 
 
 
1.1 Students needing to  interrupt their studies may apply to go into voluntary suspension.  
Voluntary suspension differs from academic suspension in that it represents an interruption 
of studies for an individual who is otherwise qualified for continued study. 
 
1.2 In allowing any student to enter voluntary suspension the guiding principle is that the student 
must, on exiting voluntary suspension, be able to resume studies and complete their course 
as if their studies had been uninterrupted. 
 
1.3 Students in voluntary suspension are not permitted to attend any classes.  They are  not 
normally eligible to take any assessments and all examination attempts due during a period 
of voluntary suspension are automatically discounted.  However, in exceptional  
circumstances, it may be helpful to permit a student to attempt assessments whilst in 
suspension (see 4.7 below). 
 
1.5 The maximum period of voluntary suspension approved at any one time will be one complete 
academic session. Under exceptional circumstances, voluntary suspension may be renewed 
for one further session. Students unable to resume studies after two consecutive academic 
sessions in voluntary suspension will normally be withdrawn from their course. 
 
1.6 Where a period of voluntary suspension is granted on the ground of personal circumstances 
that adversely affect studies, on completion of the period of voluntary suspension the student 
will be expected to provide  evidence of their fitness to resume studies before being 
readmitted to their course of study. 
 
2 Who is eligible to go into voluntary suspension? 
 
 
2.1 Any student who is registered within the normal duration of an undergraduate instructional 
or postgraduate instructional or research programme of a minimum of 12 months duration 
in total may seek voluntary suspension from their studies. This applies to all full-time and part-
time courses and courses taken through attendance or by distance learning.

--- PAGE 3 ---

2.2 Postgraduate students who have completed their  normal duration of study and  are 
registered as “writing up” are not eligible to seek voluntary suspension. If necessary, any 
personal circumstances that might delay completion should be managed through a request 
for an extension to the maximum duration of study. 
 
2.3 Students in academic  suspension are not normally eligible for voluntary suspension. 
Students seeking voluntary suspension for a whole academic session may only do so if they 
have been awarded a pass, proceed or re-attend progress decision by the Board of 
Examiners on completion of the previous session. 
 
2.4 Any undergraduate student whose academic performance within a semester is pending a 
decision of a Board of Examiners may not seek voluntary suspension for that semester (i.e. a 
student who has results pending from the January diet of examinations cannot seek voluntary 
suspension for semester 1). 
 
3 Application and approval 
 
 
3.1 Students needing to interrupt their studies for part or whole of a session should initially 
contact their Adviser of Studies/Personal Development Advisor/Course Leader as 
appropriate. Requests for voluntary suspension should be completed by the student at the 
earliest opportunity on the form available from Student Business 
(http://www.strath.ac.uk/sees/studentpolicies/policies/attendance/absenceandvoluntarys
uspension/).  
 
3.2 Any student wishing to take voluntary suspension must provide appropriate grounds for 
seeking this status. Acceptable grounds are typically either to allow the student to take 
advantage of one-off career and life enhancing activities or to allow the student to address 
personal circumstances that are adversely affecting their studies. Examples of acceptable 
grounds include: 
• To allow engagement in national or international sporting or other competitive 
opportunities. 
• To allow engagement in fixed-term employment or volunteering that directly relates to 
the student’s studies and that will enhance their overall educational experience. 
• To allow resolution of short-term financial, medical, social or environmental difficulties 
that adversely affect studies.

--- PAGE 4 ---

3.3 Requests for voluntary suspension should contain details  of the grounds for the request, 
including appropriate evidence and the  actual, or anticipated, last date of study and the 
expected date of return to study. Personal circumstances that constitute acceptable grounds 
for granting voluntary suspension are the same as those detailed as acceptable within the 
University’s Personal Circumstances and Academic Appeals Procedure. 
 
3.4 Voluntary suspension will not be granted to allow an unengaged student,  without valid 
personal circumstances, the opportunity to re-attend. The progress of such students will be 
determined by the appropriate Board of Examiners. 
 
3.5 Any completed application for voluntary suspension should be  endorsed by the student’s 
Head of Department/Course Leader/Advisor of Studies and submitted to Student Business. 
All requests will require approval by the Vice-Dean (Academic) of the relevant Faculty acting 
on behalf of the Faculty Board of Study. 
 
3.6 Students who have a request for voluntary suspension approved will be notified by Student 
Business. This notification will include the exact dates that the period of  suspension 
commences and is completed. 
 
3.7 If a period of voluntary suspension is approved, the student's registration will be amended to 
show a student in voluntary suspension and some tuition fees may be refunded. Students are 
required to inform their Local Education Authority or grant awarding body of this change to 
their academic status. In the summer, the student’s record is validated to the appropriate 
course and year of study. 
 
3.8 Once voluntary suspension is approved, any tuition fee is refunded to the payer (typically 
SAAS, a local education authority or the student). If it is not taken back by the payer, it is 
held in a suspense account and used to meet tuition fees  the following session. Any 
difference in fees between the two academic years may need to be paid by the student. 
 
3.9 A student in voluntary suspension is not eligible to receive any bursary or scholarship support. 
Postgraduate research students entering voluntary suspension will have payment of any 
stipend suspended for the duration of the suspension. Doctoral research students who are 
in receipt of a stipend may be eligible to apply to the PGR Leave Support Fund for paid 
leave support for maternity, paternity, shared parental, medical or carers leave.

--- PAGE 5 ---

3.10 An undergraduate student who is unsuccessful in an application for voluntary suspension 
will have their progress determined by the appropriate Board of Examiners. 
 
4 When can voluntary suspension be sought? 
 
 
4.1 Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students can normally only seek  voluntary 
suspension for a duration that equates to one complete academic session. Exceptions to 
this are: 
• If the student has already been given permission to transfer to a different course in the 
subsequent academic session. 
• If the student has already been given permission to  re-attend the same year of the 
course in the subsequent academic session. Agreement of such re-attend decisions, in 
advance of a meeting of the Board of Examiners, will require the approval of either the 
convenor of the Board of Examiners or the Vice-Dean (Academic) as appropriate. 
Under such circumstances,  voluntary suspension can  be sought at any time during the  
academic session and will commence at the date of application and run to the  end of the 
session. All performances up to the start of the period the voluntary suspension will stand on 
the student record. Additionally, instructional students on part-time, flexible or modular 
courses may be able to take voluntary suspension for short periods, as dictated by their course 
structure. 
 
4.2 Requests for voluntary suspension for the entire subsequent session can only be made once 
the student has received a pass, proceed or re-attend decision from the Board of Examiners 
for the present session. 
 
4.3 Outwith the conditions of 4.1 above, a student can seek voluntary suspension for the entire 
duration of their current session at any point in the  seven weeks following registration in a 
standard academic year (ie for undergraduate students, this would be by the end of week 
seven  of the first semester of a standard pattern of teaching). Students entering voluntary 
suspension up to this point will be recorded as in suspension for the entire session and will 
normally be expected to return to studies at the start of the subsequent academic session. 
 
4.4 Outwith the conditions of 4.1 above, a student can seek voluntary suspension at any point 
in the first seven weeks of semester 2 of their current session. Under such circumstances the 
suspension will commence on the first day of semester 2 and run for one complete academic 
cycle to the last day of semester 1 of the subsequent session. All semester 1 performances 
from the present session will remain unapproved on the student’s record until the final

--- PAGE 6 ---

completion of the academic session. 
 
4.5 In exceptional circumstances, a student in voluntary suspension may be permitted to attempt 
re-sit examinations, in particular for a class they fully attended, were assessed in, and failed 
before the period of suspension commenced. This could be to minimise the workload on their 
return, or because the class is being withdrawn. However, students taking examinations 
under such circumstances must be advised that they are re-siting on an unapproved result 
that has yet to be validated by a Board of Examiners. On completion of the session, the Board 
of Examiners will apply its usual rules with respect to marks approval, compensation and 
progress irrespective of any pre-emptive re-sit that has been taken. 
 
4.6 Research students within their normal duration of study can seek voluntary suspension at any 
time and for any duration within the time limits imposed in section 1. 
 
4.7 A student on a Tier 4 study visa who is placed in voluntary suspension is no longer eligible, 
under the terms of their visa, to remain in the UK. Therefore, for such students, no part of 
their period of voluntary suspension can  be retrospective. For all other students, the 
maximum extent to which voluntary suspension may be  applied retrospectively is eight 
weeks as detailed in 4.3 and 4.4 above, noting that postgraduate research students are not 
eligible to receive stipend payments whilst in voluntary suspension (see 3.9 above). 
 
 
 
 
QAC 18th December 2013 
Minor revision 1 May 2019

--- PAGE 7 ---

Start Student seeks advice from Advisor 
of Studies, PDA/Course Leader
Student seeks advice on financial 
implications with SAAS (or 
equivalent) / Student Finance
Student downloads 
Voluntary Suspension 
application form from 
University website
Student completes Voluntary Suspension application 
form, citing grounds and providing supporting evidence 
to Head of Department (or nominee) for consideration 
and signature
HoD (or nominee) forwards 
application to Student Business, 
advising if they would support or 
reject application
Student Business liaise with Vice Dean 
(Academic)/(Research) to consider the 
request 
VDA or VDR 
supports 
application
End
Student Business notifies 
student of outcome and 
amends student record
End
Student Business prepares an 
annual report on Voluntary 
Suspension per academic year
QAC receives annual report broken 
down per Faculty and level
VDA or VDR 
rejects 
application
Student Business notifies 
student of outcome